when we finally got around to talking about the danger of nuclear weapons in the hands of fundamentalist iran a lot of things began to fall into place
both peres and president clinton of course are running for reelection and it is reasonable and logical to assume that mr. clinton's unprecedented public support for an israeli prime minister owes at least something to domestic u. s. politics and courting the jewish vote
but when you hear prime minister peres lay out what he perceives as the greatest global threat since nazism and communism you may be inclined to modify the simple political explanation
the israelis acted once before to take out the nuclear capacity of an enemy
listen carefully to what mr. peres says when i ask him whether israel would do that again
this is one interview in other words where we know what's coming and where i think you'll find it worthwhile waiting until the end
there is something a little bit bizarre about the fact that yasir arafat is coming here tomorrow to be with you and and president clinton
president hussein of jordan who decided some time ago a couple of weeks ago not to come is not going to be here
in a sense that symbolizes how drastically things have changed in the middle east over the last few months even
yes but still i may say that our relations with king hussein are excellent
we don't have any problems
and i believe that arafat made some important decisions in his life
he changed the destinies of the palestinian people and he became a partner to the peace process
once he made peace with israel we became the same camp and we face the same dangers
among those dangers i would assume that at the moment you would still have to count hafez al assad
how do you interpret what assad is about
i think basically he made the decision to have peace to make peace
you know for many good years he claimed that he wants to achieve a strategic equilibrium with israel
he gave it up
he knows that he cannot match us militarily
now he wants to have an economic equilibrium with israel
the problem with assad is that while he made the strategic choice he didn't select any tactic that leads to the fulfillment of that end
if one looks at the tactics that he has been pursuing i mean i find it a little hard to understand that you are as benevolent in your public utterances about assad as you are because you understand better than anyone the lebanese government has very little power to act on its own unless assad gives his permission
the the rockets the katyusha rockets that were fired against northern israel came through syria could not have gotten into the hands of hezbollah if assad had not given his permission
why are you so nice to him publicly
i've learned the hard way something which is very important and that is in order to achieve peace more than you need a plan you need a partner
a plan without a partner is just a piece of paper
your predecessor the late prime minister rabin said you can't you can't end war you can't make peace or you don't need to make peace with your friends it has to be with your enemies
i'm not quoting him precisely
but using that as the logic behind a strategic policy would have you following the same kind of strategy toward the iranians the the iraqis the libyans
why not
number
there is a difference
maybe in the tactics there is a similarity between syria and iran but while the iranians are declaring publicly that they want to destroy israel they don't say they are ready to have peace they don't say they are ready for compromise
they finance they arm they push all the terroristic organization because to create problems to destroy the peace process
you know where religious religion begins logic ends and they're above reason they're above dialogue they're above any process
all right
why not try to deal then with saddam hussein and iraq
saddam hussein is a very practical man whatever else you may think of him in many respects like assad
when you say so you have to explain to me what is the difference between being a crazy man and a practical man
you think he's crazy
he is crazy he's cruel he's a killer
so is assad
he may not be crazy but he's cruel and he's a killer
he used to be
i mean he engaged today i'm not so sure
i mean he tried his hands to achieve many things in one way
today he knows that it is unachievable
you know assad was sure probably that without him nothing will move in the middle east that there wouldn't be any peace process
he was even probably sure that arafat will not go our way that hussein will not make peace with us
it was a little bit surprise
and since he is very far from being a fool he draw his lessons
prime minister peres we have to take a short break
we'll be back with prime minister peres of israel in just a moment
and we're back once again with the prime minister of israel shimon peres
mr. prime minister talk to me for a moment about what your personal feelings were and i don't mean now as prime minister of israel but your personal feelings as a father and a grandfather when you heard about the consequences of the attacks on that u. n. center in lebanon where almost one hundred lebanese men women and children were killed
i regret it deeply it was a shock to me but that's one side of the story
i must be also responsible if i as the minister of defense send israeli soldiers in the depth of the lebanese territory to intercept the launching of katyushas and they are being attacked
i cannot tell them don't defend yourself and when they defend themselves and unfortunately six shells overfly the target and they didn't have the slightest idea that there are civilians what can i tell them
the u. n. says differently
there were u. n. personnel there who say they called the israeli military that the israeli military did in fact know that there were many civilians in that camp
that's the first time that i hear something like it
the u. n. field spokesman actually said that they witnessed the attack upon our force
that is true
yes
and the israelis if they would know i assure you that no israeli officer would shoot at women and children
you
many of our officers lost their lives because they didn't want to shoot at children and women
are you telling me now that israel cannot do that in the future if the hezbollah breaks the agreement
let us say that rockets do come from a civilian center as they most certainly will if hezbollah breaks the agreement
the answer is yes
yes what
we shall try to separate when attacking the terrorists and touching the civilians
we are telling the lebanese make up your mind
either you want to serve as a shelter to the hezbollah and then you will have to separate because we don't want to hurt civilian life or prevent them from coming in in the midst of your own existence
all of that presumes prime minister peres that the lebanese government actually has the capability of doing what you demand of them which brings us back once again to the puppeteer hafez al assad
he is the one who controls the actions of hezbollah in lebanon not the lebanese government
i would say that concerning the hezbollah iran is the engine and syria are the brakes of it
i do not believe that the syrians have ordered the hezbollah to attack us
no but
they can't prevent it
but they allowed the katyusha rockets to pass through syria
yes they did and they will have to also learn in the future that it carries a price because what happened really
why did they agree finally to have a truce or a cease fire
because we told the villagers leave the village
we want to stop the shooting of the katyushas so hundreds of thousands left
but you you destroyed a lot of civilian infrastructure
no we didn't destroy houses but positions maybe a house in a village from which they used to shoot katyushas
we were careful not to cause any destruction in infrastructure
we did not destroy roads
we controlled the roads so katyushas will not be able to go from the north to the south
it was a very thought out operation don't make a mistake about it
prime minister peres a lot of what has happened obviously has been going on within the political context of your elections our upcoming elections and i'd like to focus on on both those points in just a moment but we're going to take another short break
back with prime minister peres in a moment
we're back once again with the prime minister of israel shimon peres
mr. prime minister you had a you had an image problem only a few months ago in your own country in the sense that benjamin netanyahu is perceived as the tough guy
likud is perceived as being much tougher in terms of representing the interests of israel
the labor party you in particular do not have that tough an image
indeed i mean worse things can be said about a man than that he is perceived as a peacemaker but that was losing or apparently losing votes for you as far as the polls were concerned
one could argue that this operation in lebanon served your purposes very well politically
respond to that for a moment
i think it's totally wrong because before the operation i have had an edge of sixteen percent without the shooting and without the fighting
because of the shooting and the fighting i lost i didn't win anything
i mean if you ask for my
of course
really sincere views that i am engaged in two campaigns a domestic campaign which is okay
i have an opposition we have an opposition
they oppose
i am trying not to let them become unemployed and have their own portion but then all of a sudden we have a second campaign by the intervention of the anti peace forces in the arab world
i cannot do things in order to be liked or disliked
finally at my age and my position you cannot buy me buy me off by power or prestige or polls
but if i have to make a choice between being reelected and performing correctly as a prime minister and as a defense minister my first call is to my duties and not to my elections
but ted let me say something more serious
if you want to have my real view there is a race between two convoys in the middle east the fundamentalistic one which wants to mobilize the muslim world against israel to destroy it that uses terror that tries to require nonconventional arms that feels that they have the right to lie and cheat and kill because such an important goal justifies all means and our convoy which is a convoy of creating a new strategy creating a new coalition
i think we have only four years to win this race or to lose it
why four years
because i believe that in four years they may reach nuclear weapons
you know it's not for the first time that you have an evil movement in history
it is the first time in history that an evil and malicious movement covered by a religious lining may acquire these terrible weapons
imagine what would happen if hitler would have a nuclear bomb
the whole history would be different
and i feel convinced and committed to win this race not to let it to anybody else not to say somebody will do it
if i compare it with hitler at the time of hitler we didn't have a state if we would have a state maybe things would also be different
here we don't have much time we have a real competition danger a short time and much is at stake
prime minister we we have come almost to the end of my allotted time and i'm sorry it's my fault because we have come to the most important part at the end but let me just try and ask you a couple of quick questions then
when you talk about a four year timetable and the acquisition of nuclear weapons you're talking about iran
yes
a number of years ago one of your predecessors prime minister begin launched or ordered the launching of an attack against nuclear facilities in iraq for precisely the same reason
are you telling me that the same thing might happen now with iran
not necessarily
i would rather see an earlier attempt to intercept this danger because even since then things have changed
today you can produce nuclear bombs without having reactors
you can do it in caves you can do it by centrifuges it's not a simple proposition
and there's also nuclear technology leaking out of the former soviet union
exactly so
is it your is it your understanding that some of that technology has made its way to iran
in the way of knowledge i am afraid yes it surely made its way to iraq
i think iraq today if it wouldn't be for the campaign against iraq iraq would have already a nuclear bomb you know in spite of our bombing their reactor
when you say in terms of knowledge are you are you suggesting that former soviet scientists or military people with nuclear knowledge are now working with the iranians
i can't say it with certainty but we know there are one hundred fifty russian experts trying to build what the russians are saying is a civilian nuclear capacity but the difference is so thin and so worrying and it is because of it that i think that a united policy by the western world and with russia to prevent the iranians from having a combination of a fundamentalistic movement and a nuclear capacity is essential
it is better to prevent it by say an economic pressure than by a military confrontation
would it be fair then to say would you make the argument that one of the reasons that president clinton has been as supportive of you and he's been extraordinarily publicly supportive of you is not so much the the personal relationship even but that the united states sees its national interests equally threatened
it goes together
you know president clinton if you ask me is a moving friend
we are moved by him
he visited israel contrary to all protocols twice once to participate in the funeral of the late yitzhak rabin then again he came when we had the bombs in jerusalem
he met our youth he conquered their heart
this is not in the contradiction of really trying to create a coalition against the greatest danger in our time after communism and nazism which is fundamentalism
fundamentalism armed with nuclear weapons you say
exactly so
prime minister peres we as i say we got to the we got to the most interesting part at the end
my fault but i thank you for raising it and i thank you once again for being a guest on nightline
appreciate it very much
thank you very much
i'll be back in a moment
and that's our report for tonight
i'm ted koppel in washington
for all of us here at a. b. c. news good night
gas prices going up
the president and the republicans suddenly decide it's an issue a new drug to help you lose weight
the government approves its sale today and an a. b. c. news investigation of the witness protection program
but are some criminals too dangerous to protect
from a. b. c. this is world news tonight with peter jennings
good evening
we begin tonight with the president's policy towards illegal drugs
every president has a policy or soon develops one and president clinton has now developed his and asked the congress for fifteen billion dollars to take care of it next year
here's our white house correspondent brit hume
the president is proud of his record on crime and talks about it a lot
lately though he is engaged in a flurry of activity on the drug issue
it began with the appointment of army general barry mccaffrey who was with mr. clinton today in florida as his drug policy chief
the president now talks about him a lot
and with general mccaffrey
as general mccaffrey said
you heard general mccaffrey allude to that
and general mccaffrey
the reason for the president's sudden emphasis on the issue is simple and he stated it himself today
while the drug rate has gone down drug usage among people under eighteen has gone up
while the crime rate has gone down random violence among people under eighteen has gone up
so mr. clinton has expanded his drug policy office which he drastically cut back in his first year
today at this school in florida where students have taken a no drug pledge he outlined a new strategy to fight drugs
it relies on persuading kids to avoid drugs and treating and preventing addiction when it occurs
but it also contains something new for this president stepped up efforts to stop drugs at the borders and to cut off sources of supply in other countries
mr. clinton once derided the bush administration for its efforts to do that
today the president called for bipartisanship on the issue and got from republicans in washington the response you'd expect in an election year
i'm not getting any great joy out of standing here saying that the president has done a lousy job on this
but you cannot look at the last two years and say he's done a good job
he's done a bad job
the president would strongly dispute that but the very fact that he's introducing a new strategy three years and four months into his term is a sign that on drug policy he'd rather talk about what he's going to do than what he's done
brit hume a. b. c. news the white house
nothing in washington goes untouched by politics
and here's some basic political wisdom never underestimate the power of angry motorists
with gasoline prices at their highest level in five years politicians across the country are almost falling over themselves denouncing the oil companies and telling us what they would do to bring the prices down
president clinton got into the act today with an executive order
in washington a. b. c.'s john cochran
the president's action is aimed at doing something about higher gas prices just before demand peaks this summer when americans take to the road
the president ordered his administration to begin selling about twelve million barrels of u. s. petroleum reserves
the idea is to increase market supply in an attempt to drive prices down or at least hold them steady
bob dole scoffed at the notion
selling off twelve million barrels that's less than one day's consumption in the united states
it may have some impact around the edges the one thing he left off is repealing the gas tax
that's one way to get immediate relief and it's certain it's four point three cents a gallon
the white house says it is willing to discuss repealing or lowering that tax
president clinton has also asked energy secretary hazel o'leary to review the factors that led to the price hikes and report back in forty five days
the oil industry says increases were needed to offset costs resulting from anti pollution laws heavy use of fuel last winter and uncertain oil production in the mideast
the administration is not convinced and hopes its review will make oil producers nervous maybe nervous enough to lower prices
democrats also want to make republicans nervous by tying them to oil producers
the christians had a better chance against the lions than the american consumer has against the unholy alliance of the big oil companies and newt gingrich and bob dole
maybe no one knows for sure why gasoline prices are so high but in an election year politicians know they had better appear to do something about it
john cochran a. b. c. news washington
just one note today about the money side of running for politics
question who much money did ross perot's reform committee which is raising money for an independent run at the white house take in during the month of march six hundred fourteen thousand nine hundred forty two dollars
how much did ross perot contribute
that amount precisely
the federal election commission says mr. perot was the only contributor
there is a new prescription drug to treat obesity
in a moment the pros and the cons of dexfen
also tonight the search for the former director of the c. i. a.
he is still missing
and the pentagon as discount retailer it is your money
several stories on our health report today
the first one is about losing weight
for the first time in twenty two years the food and drug administration today approved a new drug for the treatment of obesity
it is the first drug approved for a long term use
here's a. b. c.'s george strait
dexfen as it's called was developed in france and is likely to benefit seventy five million americans
that's the number of people in this country who are considered to be obese because they weigh thirty percent more than recommended
the f. d. a. says the drug can be taken for up to a year
other appetite suppressants are only supposed to be used for a few months
it will be the first medication that will be approved for continuing use with the recognition that obesity really is a chronic disease and an incurable disease and needs continually kind of treatment
this drug works best when used in conjunction with a reduced calorie diet and exercise
studies show people can lose up to ten percent of their body weight within six months and keep it off for a year
you still have to be on a diet
you still have to be careful
the medication will not make it happen for you
the drug's side effects are said to be mild a little dry mouth or drowsiness
nevertheless when it's sold there will be a label on the package saying dexfen should not be taken by people with high blood pressure or pregnant women
george strait a. b. c. news washington
in washington today a nineteen year old west african woman is making news
and by doing so she is drawing attention to american immigration policy and to one of the most distasteful practices that some women still have to endure in the developing world
here's a. b. c.'s michele norris
fazia kasinga fled her west african homeland of togo after she was sold into a polygamous marriage
her husband insisted that she undergo female genital mutilation removing the female sex organ or clitoris with a knife or razor blade often without anesthesia
from what i i know that is a very terrible thing
it's very harmful
it kills women all the time
so i will never allow myself to go through that procedure
so kasinga escaped using a black market passport to come to the united states
but instead of finding asylum kasinga has spent the past sixteen months behind bars released from jail last wednesday following considerable media attention in her plight
but her struggle could lead to a larger victory
after initially rejecting her asylum claim the i. n. s. now plans to use her case to set precedent for all women who claim that genital mutilation is a form of persecution
we think that here this is clearly appropriate to provide protection to certain people who are facing this kind of a risk
that's part of what our asylum institution should be there for
the hearing will begin this thursday
michele norris a. b. c. news washington
overseas
on the australian island of tasmania today the man who killed at least thirty four people yesterday has been fully identified
police say he's a twenty eight year old australian named martin bryant who had a history of psychological problems
after the shooting he had barricaded himself in this house but he was captured after he set it on fire and was forced to escape the flames
the prime minister of australia john howard said today that his nation had been shaken to the core
on wall street today the dow jones industrials gained five and one half points to close at five thousand five hundred seventy three
on the nasdaq market stocks gained just about a point
in texas beyond self service almost
the gas station that doesn't even have attendants
motorists use cash or credit or debit cards to fill up
it is like a bank's automated teller machine except there is a video camera and an intercom to a nearby manned station so you can still ask for directions
shell oil has two test sites in houston and in dayton ohio
no plans yet to roll out the idea nationwide and no one to do your windscreen
the undercover crooks who are helping the police but putting the public at risk
back in just a moment
we have an a. b. c. news investigation tonight into the witness protection program
and it suggests that the public may sometimes need as much protection as the witnesses
more and more prosecutors are relying on informants to make criminal cases
but are they doing enough to properly screen or control them
a. b. c.'s james walker has been investigating
albuquerque new mexico last september
while thousands of youngsters were enjoying the annual state fair police issued this urgent plea
please please please be aware of where your children are and what they're doing
the reason a child rapist was loose in the city
police released a composite picture of the man who had kidnapped two boys then drove them into nearby mountains where he raped them before eventually letting them go
how this could have happened is just beyond me
i felt so bad for jake what he has had to endure
three days later this man michael robinson was arrested for the crimes
as he was being driven to police headquarters he made a startling claim to deputy sheriff jeannie webb
he tells me he says well look i'm scheduled to enter the federal witness protection program next week and i said yeah right
in fact he was right
six months earlier facing a mandatory ten year prison sentence for drug trafficking robinson became an informant for the u. s. attorney in a marijuana and murder investigation
in return his sentence was suspended and he became eligible to enter the witness protection program
but his drug charge wasn't his only run in with police
he had been convicted three times of raping children
and in this nineteen eighty five court document he told a psychologist that over an eight year period he had actually raped children quote so many times two hundred times that there is no thought involved any more
moreover when federal prosecutor elizabeth martinez recruited robinson as an informant she was aware of his convictions for rape
she refused to talk to a. b. c. news but she did speak to deputy sheriff webb and her partner janet perilla
she was saying that sometimes you have to deal with the despicable to catch the despicable
where do you draw the line
if you don't draw it at pedophile then you don't draw it anywhere
when prosecutors asked a federal judge last june to approve their deal with robinson they did promise that they would quote ensure the safety of the community
but bernalillo county undersheriff kenneth mcwethy whose detectives were assigned to monitor robinson for the federal task force says that was impossible
you can't stay with an informant twenty four hours a day and especially when you're working three or four informants at a time on a case
you can't stay with them twenty four hours a day
the use of informants like robinson is not uncommon
more and more prosecutors are striking deals with criminals sometimes even freeing them from jail in exchange for providing information on other criminals
and the policy has its costs
in spokane washington an f. b. i. informant after getting a new identity and entering the witness protection program committed murder
in fresno california another drug informant in the witness protection program murdered an armored car driver during a hold up
in laurel county kentucky an informant with a history of violence murdered two brothers while working for th f. b. i.
i absolutely think that the informant system is the most dangerous single part of the federal law enforcement system
philip heymann was deputy attorney general under president clinton and an author of the informant guideline still used by the f. b. i.
heymann thinks criminals who are habitual and pathological should not be used that supervision of all informants should be tightened
justice department officials refused to discuss heymann's proposals
they also declined to say how many informants have committed violent crimes while working for the government
and they would not explain why they would ever do business with a man like michael robinson
james walker a. b. c. news washington
the search for the former director of the c. i. a. after this
we mark the twenty fifth anniversary today of a very controversial government agency
it is the occupational safety and health administration commonly known as osha
several thousand americans lose their lives on the job every year so osha certainly has its supporters
but increasingly osha has become a lightning rod for those who think that government bureaucracy makes their lives too difficult
a. b. c.'s lisa stark on the balance
it was a republican president richard nixon who signed osha into law promising new protection for american workers
twenty five years later it is republicans who are waging the assault against osha claiming it is a bullying bureaucracy that harasses employers with petty rules
half of the citations they come out with are for paperwork
now in the long run don't tell me that's a good way to promote health and safety for workers
south bend roofing contractor bill steinmetz says osha forces his company to follow volumes of mandates and once fined him two hundred dollars for not having a piece of paper at a job site explaining the hazards of caulking material
osha is terribly concerned with the process of how these standards work
and they're not as concerned with the impact of whether they're actually saving lives
but in industries where osha has focused its inspections death rates have dropped significantly
in construction down seventy eight percent mining seventy three percent grain handling fifty eight percent
and osha says it is changing the way it operates
inspectors are no longer judged by how many citations they issue and businesses are given a chance to be partners rather than punished
there are going to be serious consequences for serious violators
if employers want to take a cooperative approach with us the hand is out
for example this maryland sheet metal plant was allowed to install its own safety gear rather than more expensive equipment recommended by the government
i wasn't interested in spending that money
i thought that if we met maybe we could resolve it
and we did
by increasing cooperation with business and backing off paperwork violations osha has managed to stave off its critics
despite the attacks on capitol hill the agency has survived with budget cuts of just two percent
lisa stark a. b. c. news washington
some of the other news now
in new mexico today firefighters are hoping that by lighting a backfire they have been able to keep a large brushfire from reaching the los alamos national laboratory
that's where the first atomic bomb was built
the fire has destroyed over fifteen thousand acres
it has already burned through some ancient indian ruins
one of the leading figures in the american intelligence community is still missing
william colby the former director of the c. i. a. disappeared from his country home on the potomac river south of washington over the weekend
officials now believe that he had a boating accident and has drowned
a. b. c.'s john mcwethy
divers spent all day searching for colby's body
neighbors who reported him missing said they found dirty dishes in the sink of his weekend home his radio and computer were on
his overturned canoe was found in the water nearby
very very qualified sailor
he knows what he's doing
he knows a lot about the sea
and that's what makes it so unusual to find out what really happened to him
there's no indication that anything is out of the ordinary that would point towards foul play or any type of crime or anything at all like that
the man who vanished this weekend spent a lifetime as a spy parachuting behind enemy lines during world war two and then taking assignments in europe and later vietnam where he was c. i. a. station chief
colby became director of the c. i. a. in the mid nineteen seventy's
he was both a reformer and a whistleblower deeply dividing the intelligence community
he testified before a congressional investigating committee about c. i. a. dirty tricks confirming attempts to assassinate cuban leader fidel castro plus numerous operations that violated u. s. law such as opening mail of american citizens phone taps and break ins
earlier this year colby lent his name and his image to a c. d. rom computer game called spy craft
he was an author a lawyer an outdoorsman who friends say was most at peace when on the water
john mcwethy a. b. c. news washington
we'll be back in just a moment
finally this evening the bargain that may be costing taxpayers a bundle as they try to downsize the military
it's part of our weekly report on how the government spends your money
and once again it concerns the pentagon
it is one of those programs that has been around for quite some time
not everyone has paid a great deal of attention to it
it's turning out that it could be very expensive
here's a. b. c.'s john martin
every day tens of thousands of shoppers descend on the three hundred eleven commissaries run by the pentagon around the world
prices here are as much as twenty five percent lower than civilian stores
the commissaries charge less because they pay no state or local sales taxes and receive a subsidy of nearly one billion dollars a year from congress
right now three million people are eligible to shop here active duty members of the armed forces their dependents and retirees
the commissaries were created to help families on modest military salaries make ends meet
but as the defense department downsizes active duty personnel will decline
so to keep the commissaries open the pentagon is considering a plan for unlimited visits by two million more shoppers members of the reserves their dependents and retired reservists who can now visit here only twelve times a year
this creates a problem
the expansion will cost perhaps two hundred forty million dollars a year in added operating expenses yet wind up helping many reservists who can afford to shop elsewhere
take air force reservist dick edmunds
he's an airline pilot and business man who shops here for only one reason
the prices are better
the pentagon says another advantage of expanding the privilege for reservists is that it will make military service more attractive
we simply try to provide a total part of the military's compensation package in the form of low cost groceries
but civilian grocers who see this as an unfair competition ridicule the idea that it will make military service more attractive
i'll believe that's important when i see the u. s. military with recruiting posters that say join the army it's a great way to save money on your groceries
but the congressional budget office has another idea phase out the subsidies force the commissaries to compete against local stores or close
even if congress made direct cash payments to military shoppers in high cost areas the budget office says this could save over four years one point six billion dollars
that's your money
john martin a. b. c. news washington
and that's our report on world news tonight
later this evening nightline
israeli prime minister shimon peres is going to be ted koppel's guest
i'm peter jennings
i'll see you tomorrow
have a good evening and good night
an american president on videotape
it's not a feature film and it's not fiction
president clinton testified for four and a half hours yesterday in the arkansas whitewater trial
to accommodate his head of state schedule and security concerns the president was permitted to give testimony from the comfort of the white house via videotape
defense attorneys for jim and susan mcdougal wanted the president to refute david hale's allegation that clinton pressured him to make an improper loan
the prosecution took about four times as long to ask its questions as we took on direct and i think that's probably about all i can tell you except that i'm very very satisfied with the proceedings today
the videotaped questioning has been ordered sealed for at least thirty days making the next question on everyone's mind whether the american public will ever get a screening
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony but that it shouldn't be abused in any way
this is burden of proof with roger cossack and greta van susteren
welcome to burden of proof
president clinton was questioned yesterday for several hours in the white house map room
the videotaped testimony is expected to be used in the whitewater trial of susan and jim mcdougal and governor jim guy tucker
the president's testimony was videotaped with a scrambled satellite transmission to the judge in arkansas who was actually presiding over the trial
today we'll discuss the president's testimony and the latest in the whitewater controversy
our panel includes whitewater committee minority counsel richard ben veniste former white house counsel boyden gray and former republican national committee counsel jan baran
but first let's talk to c. n. n. correspondent bob franken who has been covering the trial
bob how's the deposition going
how many lawyers faced the president yesterday
there were a gaggle of lawyers as a matter of fact
there were the defense attorneys representing the clients as you said plus six from the independent counsel's office and their support team f. b. i. agents paralegals et cetera et cetera et cetera probably a couple of dozen people in the room all focused on the president as was that videotape camera
there is a strict order of secrecy by the judge
however we were told by sources in the room that the president did in fact repeat his categorical denials of the charges that david hale has made that he was implicated in the illegal loans
the defense side was in fact genuinely euphoric over the way that it had gone
they are saying now that they feel they will be very effective in using the president's testimony to repudiate what david hale said
so it begs the question why then is the white house so interested in keeping the tape suppressed
at any rate that was what happened yesterday
information is very slim
what happens next is it's played by the defense in front of the jurors in little rock at a time t. b. a. it will be up to the defense certainly not this week perhaps next week
then comes the discussion about whether or not the tape will be shown to the general public
that of course is still an open question
bob tell me how long was the examination by the defense if you know and how long was the cross examination by the independent counsel
well what happened apparently first of all it all lasted the actual questioning and answering went about three and a half hours
the rest was for breaks of various kinds in this four and a half hour session
apparently the defense attorneys who were doing direct went less than an hour
i'm hearing about forty five minutes
the rest of the time was done by the independent counsel's prosecutors
so that would have meant that they went about two and a half hours
very few details about who asked what
again the key question here was david hale
well you know it's an interesting thing is the key question is david hale but you'd think that would take like five minutes you know
you know do you have any did david hale actually you know engage in some sort of financial shenanigans with you
yes or no and presumably the president said no
i mean what else could they go into
i mean that is the center of it isn't it bob
greta you're a trial attorney
you know that you know that a simple thirty second spot in television can take days in a trial and i
well you know we get paid by the word in trials
i believe that's called billable hours
richard what i think they've tried to do in this case is very clearly they've tried to make it into a contest between this jury of who do you believe david hale or bill clinton the president of the united states and i would think in some ways that's kind of dangerous for the president
what happens if they reject him and the jury says you know i didn't believe the president
well david hale's testimony and his credibility has been pretty well shredded in the course of this trial and i think a the defense strategy is very effective
they'd rather have david hale versus bill clinton be the issue that the jury decides on in voting yes or no on convictions of their clients
i think that if there are convictions it will be in spite of david hale's allegations rather than because of them
he's changed his story so many different times
when he first talked about it there was no implication of the president pressuring mr. clinton that's not in the indictment
it wasn't in the grand jury
it is an afterthought an embellishment and the prosecution has fallen into the trap in my view of treating this as a big issue because they couldn't resist the titillation of the president's name being involved
i would suspect that the president cleaned their clock in his testimony
boyden is this a real problem for the president testifying
i think it's a political problem not a legal one
what's at stake here is the fact that the president was when he was governor involved with an s. and l. that failed and it follows a pattern that typified the s. and l. crisis that was the biggest financial most costly financial scandal for the american taxpayer in our history and it's not that there was necessarily anything criminal there but the subject matter was summed up in your own reporter's book brooks jackson in a book called honest grant and how the there was a grant of regulatory indulgences to the s. and l. industry in return for campaign funds nothing abjectly illegal in that necessarily but it's not a pretty picture and i think that's why they're worried about this thing getting out that is the transcript being made public because it's the larger political connection with this crisis
o. k.
let's assume that this is a political case but nevertheless it's in the context of a criminal trial
now you go to a witness who has been accused by another witness the government's witness the government's star witness of being corrupt our president
would anybody advise him jan would you advise him to take the fifth amendment
number
first of all president clinton is not a defendant in this case
he's a witness
well he's not a defendant but a man has said that he committed illegal acts
the government the government's star witness who they chose to put on that jury and talk to the jury in little rock arkansas says that he's committed criminal acts
well the critical issue's going to be credibility and it's a question of who is credible and this is what the jury is going to decide
do does the jury believe judge hale the principal witness who is someone who has pled guilty to a crime and is now testifying after having had pled guilty and has been impeached in terms of admitting that he has made lies and made statements in the past or do you believe the president of the united states in this case and the other witnesses
these are not the only two witnesses in the case that are going to be perhaps the defendants are going to be perhaps corroborating witnesses
well roger roger as a matter of fact this is an important point here
it is true the president is not a defendant in this trial but number one this entire whitewater independent counsel investigation is because of allegations against the president
it is fair to say i think that this trial is almost a metaphor for the fate of the investigation
that is to say that the key accuser in this trial is the key accuser against president clinton
if the jury in this trial believes this accuser he gains a certain amount of credibility for the investigation
well bob it's funny you should mention
bob tell me this though
that because we happen to have one of the those gentleman right here
so richard ben veniste are you going to subpoena david hale to the committee in front of the senate
definitely we will subpoena david hale
whether he will show up and testify is another question
whether after spending nine days on the witness stand in little rock he will suddenly claim that he's got some privilege to prevent him from coming before the committee remains to be seen but there's a difference between being an accomplished liar and just a liar out to help one's self in plea bargaining
i think david hale is not so accomplished a liar as his various versions of events will not sink him
the central issue is whether president clinton pressured david hale
not even the prosecution's theory embraces such a notion
there was
but no but the thing is though bob right now we have allegations against the president
allegations may hurt him politically but does anyone corroborate hale's statements so far
well it's circumstantial really
what the prosecution has done in this particular case is to reinforce the hale testimony with a lot of documentary evidence and a lot of other evidence that really implicates the defendants in this trial but i say again everything in this trial is a reflection on the political charges against the president
i think everybody here is right that this is a political trial as much as anything else
so even
i think bob would agree that there's not a shred of documentary evidence or other evidence that supports david hale's contention made now late in the game after he initially gave interviews to c. n. n. among others where he said nothing about any pressure from president clinton
that
so we've got alle
came later
we have allegations against the president but no corroboration of david hale and we need to take a break
according to ben veniste
according to ben veniste and apparently bob franken
are hillary clinton's fingerprints on the rose law firm billing records and what could that mean for the first lady
today newsweek is reporting that the f. b. i. has found hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints on rose law firm billing records
these are the records that document mrs. clinton's legal work for the madison savings and loan and the records that were missing for two years and then discovered in the clinton's private quarters in the white house
boyden is it really a problem if this is true that mrs. clinton's fingerprints are on these documents
is that really a problem
well they were her billing records
one would expect to find her fingerprints on them
i don't think that means in itself very much based on what i know but the larger question has not been answered which is to say where did those records come from how did they just appear in that room and i think that's an enduring mystery which will continue to cause problems for this case for the white house until it's solved
well jan do you think it's just sort of the a situation where the media sort of has seized upon something the fact that her fingerprints are on there that there must be something sinister
i mean
well this just came out today
i don't know what the media seized on
i mean is this much ado about nothing jan
well ninety percent of politics is much ado about nothing and here we have the confluence of a legal process in politics and we're trying to sort out what's significant what's not
the problem with fingerprints is that they can be latent for up to twenty years and be produced from documents through various fingerprinting recovery techniques and so the question here isn't you know is it surprising that mrs. clinton's fingerprints are on these documents
the question is that they do demonstrate that she physically had them at some time
she has not made any public statement or testimony regarding that
well what about if her fingerprints are in much better shape than the other fingerprints on there
would that suggest that hers are somehow newer than the others
i don't think our technology has advanced to the point where they can discriminate
richard in another life i used to try cases and let me tell you something
while we can all sit here and say fingerprints you know they don't mean anything they mean usually mean a usually a great deal with juries when i prosecuted or defended
well
and if my client's fingerprints one way or the other were on them the jurors usually know what that meant a lot more than they knew what d. n. a. meant
i find myself in complete agreement with my friend boyden here
of course her fingerprints are likely to be on them
they were her billing records
the testimony was that during the nineteen ninety two campaign they reviewed all of these records to respond to press inquiries about the underlying subject matter
what is important to keep in mind again as we talk about the uncover up the production of useful information that corroborates and confirms that which mrs. clinton had previously testified to that this was completely innocuous in terms of the rose law firm's representation the amount of time they that she spent on it
all right bob
all right bob
you tell us about it
excuse me
it's fact check time
you've heard from the first of all jan is first of all jan is being a little bit generous to politics i think with his assessment there but beyond that there are some questions raised in the billing records about her representation of madison savings and loan one of the core issues here and whether in fact that business was brought into the law firm to help her financially brought in by her whitewater partner
these are questions that have not been answered yet
there
oh bob we've had weeks and weeks of hearings on these issues
yes and you haven't and you haven't resolved the question yet which
maybe not for you bob but it's all out there though
well i suspect if the advocates i suspect that if the advocates had a predisposition they would have it resolved but let me go on just a little bit
this is about perception and you can draw conclusions from those billing records to support either side
also it must be pointed out there are two whitewater stories here
there is the arkansas story which is very arcane very tedious you haven't lived until you've sat through a hearing about that and there is now the washington whitewater and that question is was there a cover up and if so did that cover up extend into criminal behavior
but and isn't that the point
when you find when suddenly there's a story in newsweek that newsweek reports that the fingerprints were found isn't it the kind of thing that makes people go well you know isn't doesn't that sound funny that her fingerprints are on there and
but they're her records
i mean what do you expect
i mean and they've been in the white house at some point
where were those records for two years
where were they
how did they just show up on that table
and that's what raises all the questions and until those questions are answered people are going to wonder
but the point no but there's nothing even in the records that's significant
that's what i've never
oh yes
oh yes
the records do contain significant people argue about how to interpret what those records say but they are important
six ways from sunday and
all right
now i have just one second
president clinton may have been yesterday's star witness on the stand but independent counsel kenneth starr has also been in the hot seat
that topic when we come back
whitewater independent counsel kenneth starr is a former appeals court judge and solicitor general for the bush administration
that's the lawyer who argues the administration's positions in cases before the supreme court
now he is a member of a prominent washington law firm and like sixteen of the seventeen independent counsels before him has continued in that firm while serving in the role of special prosecutor
now starr's private law firm cases especially his representation of the tobacco industry has led some to accuse him of having a conflict of interest
but before we look at this issue i want viewers to know that my husband john coale is one of the attorneys opposing starr in the tobacco case
all right richard ben veniste
do you think that your adversary in many ways kenneth starr is having a conflict of interest by the fact that he is representing other industries some of whom have taken active anti administration positions as well as being the special prosecutor
well first of all roger kenneth starr is not my adversary you know
i use that in the broad sense
i think we could all agree that perhaps there's some adversarial feelings there
well here's here's my take on that roger and maybe there's a bridge between this recent revelation about mrs. clinton's fingerprints on the records on the billing records because the only thing notable about that i think as we all agree it's expected that her fingerprints would be on her records but beyond that there's a leak and that leak came from either the independent counsel's office or the f. b. i. or someone working with them
so i think that
well that's what
that's troublesome
conflict of interest or not richard
well i think the r. t. c. issue was surprising to me and i think that is much more troublesome in terms of conflict of interest and i'd like to get boyden's view about that
boyden conflict of interest
let me explain what the r. t. c. problem is
at the time that kenneth starr undertook the assignment replacing fiske there was no revelation that he and his firm to be more precise were at that time being sued by the r. t. c. in connection with a claim of
all right
let me take ken starr's position for a second is that everybody knew about all his work
they knew about his work in the tobacco industry
they knew all his connections before he was even named
i mean why now
oh i don't think that's true
i think clearly we did not know about the r. t. c. situation and i think it would be interesting to know what the r. t. c. did internally whether they thought there was a conflict among their people in terms of suing mr. starr's firm and then responding to mr. starr's inquiry
i think everybody can agree that if mr. starr had simply divorced himself from these issues that things would provide much more confidence for the american people
boyden conflict of interest or not
no i don't think so
i don't think the r. t. c. he had no knowledge of it from what i understand
maybe his maybe the partner who was working on it should have told him but he had he had no knowledge
i don't see where the con but the larger story is this tobacco representation of these black children in milwaukee
i find it almost absurd to call that a conflict of interest
he also represents general motors
roger smith their chairman sat next to mrs. clinton at a
yeah but i mean with so many lawyers in this country
greta greta there's
yeah bob
there's a larger issue here too
let us not forget how ken starr was appointed
he was appointed because there was a feeling that there was a perception that his predecessor bob fiske had some sort of political problems
so now you appoint ken starr to a position that is supposed to be above partisanship it's the reason there is this position and now he is being accused of conflict of interest of partisan interests all
all right bob
let me interrupt you
let me give boyden a chance to respond to that
he is not a partisan lawyer
he does not take part in political campaigns of any
but he was going to write a brief dir an amicus brief direct
he was going to run for senate
i mean now boyden i mean there are
this is a very compelling argument why we should have professional career prosecutors from the department of justice handling these types of investigations and these types of trials and ever since we created
there's no way we can get politics out of it is there jan
you can't take politics out of it and if we've decided as a policy matter to engage in hiring independent counsels who have to by definition come from the private sector we're going to basically invite people who are going to have these types of potential problems
o. k.
with that jan you've got
mr. starr's problem is
the last word
thank you very much
thanks to our panelists today
the last time former l. a. p. d. detective mark fuhrman was questioned he took the fifth amendment and pro football player marcus allen never even had to testify in the criminal case against o. j. simpson
now they're both being questioned
fuhrman's deposition was scheduled to begin an hour ago in idaho and marcus allen's next month in kansas city
will they talk
we'll talk about it on burden of proof tomorrow
letters p. o. box seven hundred forty thousand one hundred sixty six atlanta g. a. three oh three seven four three five seven eight
fax four oh four six eight one three five seven eight
a week after being rebuffed by donor countries at the i. m. f. world bank meeting developing countries are back seeking debt relief
the world's poorest nations say they're being left behind as domestic issues take center stage among the world's industrialized countries
john defterios reports from the u. n. conference on trade and development in johannesburg
the group of seventy seven developing nations are calling for debt relief from the group of seven industrialized nations
host nelson mandela supporting the drive of the ninth u. n. conference on trade and development to help the world's poorest two billion people
they need official development aid and they need that relief so we have to react against the assault of the development fatigue on the part of the governments
in the united states job insecurity and presidential elections are keeping the focus on domestic issues so the major players are now resisting a big reduction in multi lateral debt
we are not part of this big problem but we believe you have to have better debt management you have to have better investment policies you have to have better export policies
working on this country by country is the solution
forty eight of one hundred eighty eight members at this meeting fall into the least developed country category
the so called l. d. c.s carry a total debt burden of one hundred twenty six billion dollars have an average per capita income of just four hundred fifty dollars a year and an average debt to g. d. p. ratio of one hundred percent
most countries in southeast asia and latin america continue to boom while the least developed fall behind
my budget for this financial year is two dollars for health per capita but my debt payment services is five dollars
leaders admit africa's plight is not being helped by high profile problems like fighting in liberia
that example and others not only scare off private investors but also make it easier for donor countries to delay action
most now don't expect g. seven countries to put together a final debt relief package at their summit in june
john defterios c. n. n. financial news johannesburg south africa
general motors is said to be ready to break from the industry's traditional pattern bargaining at contract talks this summer with the united auto workers union
it is an attempt to win more concessions apparently
the company just got over a seventeen day strike last month that virtually halted north american production and it may be risking another strike later this year if it pursues this strategy
question does general motors have a good case
are the unions asking for too much
here to explain is john casesa auto analyst at schroder wertheim
welcome to business day john
good morning
all right
are the unions asking for too much are they overly aggressive given their strength these days
i do think that nineteen ninety six is going to be different from ninety three from ninety
the balance of power has really shifted away from organized labor toward management in this industry
so i think it is going to be tough to get a lot out of g. m.
but we keep hearing that the unions are now more concerted more focused and getting more aggressive and ready to take action from that strength
you don't agree with that
well i think we hear that on a national level but in the auto industry the u. a. w.'s membership is down from a million and a half to a little under eight hundred thousand and the global force of economic pressure the competition from toyota from fiat and the koreans are really what is driving change here
but they can still close down a whole company for seventeen days and cause what nine hundred million dollars worth of losses
i mean that is some power to
well absolutely but i think that those kinds of strikes are really a way of cutting your nose to spite your face because although g. m. lost nine hundred million dollars in that strike the union got nothing out of it and it increased the risk that those forty three dollar an hour jobs which it is after will become scarcer and scarcer
do you believe g. m. when it says it really is going to break from pattern bargaining and take a tougher stance or is this just part of the pre negotiation posturing
well i think all of what we're reading is pre negotiation posture
g. m. is not saying it will break from pattern
i think that is that last thing the union would let happen because that would be the beginning of the end of the u. a. w.
my impression was different
my impression was that they were going to take a step away from pattern bargaining that's not the case
well what i'm saying is g. m. has not said that
some of the press has speculated it
i think g. m. will take a tough enough line to risk breaking the pattern
it would prefer to do that but i don't think the union will let it go that far because if that if pattern breaks solidarity is broken and they won't be able to negotiate effectively with ford or with chrysler
so g. m. basically could lower the cost structure here for the whole industry not just itself
well i think what g. m. is doing is making is positioning itself so that it becomes a strike target
so it sets the agenda and the union will want to turn to g. m. to negotiate not ford not chrysler
and if g. m. settles some of these issues with the union i think ford and chrysler will be happy to go along
what kind of concessions did general motors want
it doesn't want lower wages presumably it wants more flexibility with its workforce
i think it is a combination of the two
it wants to reduce that in terms of flexibility reduce the number of job classifications from forty or fifty in a plant to two or three
rather than waiting for a specialist who is classified as electrician to come in and change the bulb so a machine can keep running they want to make sure anybody can do that
in addition i think in its parts plants it wants lower wages
a two tier wage system where workers who start now come in at a lower wage rate than those that are already on the job
that's going to get it isn't it
i think this time it is likely to get it yes that is correct
it could be an election issue couldn't it
when the world one of the world's biggest companies takes on its union and attempts to drive wages down in an election year that is news
well i agree that is a difficult complication and i've got to think that washington is going to be on the side of organized labor and not on the side of the auto industry
but you think g. m. is in a strong position here
yeah g. m.'s got eight billion dollars in cash its international operations are profitable and with all this debate about raising the minimum wage there is less and less sympathy for those folks out there making forty three dollars an hour with wages and benefits
john casesa from schroder wertheim we thank you for joining us this morning john
thank you
an interesting one to watch
yes we shall be watching too
as we mentioned earlier we'll get the numbers on new home sales for march later on this morning
if you are one of those in the process of buying a home new or previously owned we've got some advice for you
in today's edition of your money allan dodds frank suggests that in addition to the real estate sales people and the banker there is another professional who should be involved in your decision making
michael kuhn is an inspector for housemaster the nation's biggest home inspection firm
he is a pro at spotting trouble
i do consider freshly painted surfaces a red flag
they have patched it once before they've painted over it and it is cracked again so this is an ongoing maintenance situation
a good inspector will look at hundreds of details in a home but there are five basic categories
roof is number one number two would be electrical three would be plumbing four would be heating and five would probably be water penetration
when we go inside and we find water stains evidence of leakage it is typically going to be a flashing leak
so most roof leaks are actually flashing leaks
in this flashing area i could see daylight outside
i would recommend that an electrician come in here and pretty much clean up the whole system
right now i consider this to be an unsafe condition
most banks require no more than a termite inspection
beyond that you are on your own buyer beware
about fifty percent of home buyers hire an inspector
the other half assumes the risks
this is what would be considered friable asbestos
it is asbestos that in itself could become airborne
housemaster charges up to five hundred dollars for an inspection which yields a detailed inventory of problems and how much it may cost to fix them
but home inspection is unregulated and prices and service may vary
real estate broker arline littman believes in inspecting the inspector
before you hire a company check it out with your attorney check it out with your realtor
choosing somebody from the yellow pages or choosing somebody because your friend said well he told me not to buy that house so he must be wonderful wrong way to go
that's your money allan dodds frank c. n. n. financial news new york
the fashion industry is always searching for what's new and lately what's new is not really so new at all
wait for it
casey wian has the story on vintage clothing from los angeles
out with the new in with the old
the latest fashion craze is vintage clothing which has exploded out of thrift shops into a two hundred fifty million dollar a year business
it is sort of a trendy thing without being trendy
it is not something everybody can wear and it is not something everybody is totally familiar with
but it is becoming familiar from melrose avenue in los angeles to fourth street in long beach
southern california is covered with vintage clothing hats shoes shades racks of rags from another era
at meow sales are growing at forty percent a year and the store is expanding next door
more and more people are getting into wearing it they are enjoying it because we offer a lot of never worn vintage merchandise called dead stock it is quite acceptable to people that have never worn vintage because it is new
those reluctant to wear old clothes can still get the same look from manufacturers like thunder brothers which makes new replicas of vintage styles
business is booming
our first year we did about two hundred thousand dollars our second year we reached just a little bit over one million dollars and we're looking to about double that
television helps
sam in the single guy wears thunder brothers' fashions and then there is seinfeld's cosmo kramer
even roseanne's kids have helped boost vintage clothing's popularity
so much so that t. v. customers and store owners now have a tough time staying in style
digging around in warehouses and going to little mom and pop stores that still might have that nineteen forty eight pair of pants still sitting on the shelf
once found they won't sit on these shelves for long
casey wian c. n. n. financial news los angeles
the question of this monday morning is bob dole's role in the senate hurting his chances of becoming president
according to the new york times some close to his campaign think that's the case
with mr. dole trailing twenty points in the polls many believe the senate majority leader should focus his energy beyond the beltway toward courting american voters
joining us now with his thoughts on that matter along with the latest on whitewater the budget battle and a host of other items is our washington insider steve bell chairman of the steve bell group
steve a pleasure to have you back with us this monday morning
good to be here deborah
thanks
there is pressure coming from the republican party onto bob dole to give up his leadership post the issue there being perhaps his presidential campaign is not so great for the leadership
what are your thoughts
well most people at the beginning of this entire affair a year ago assumed and mr. dole had hinted that he would give up the majority leader's post once the nomination was secure which is now the case
he is going to be nominee for the party
he has changed his mind for two reasons number one to be very brutal about it they've run out of money
and if they don't have money to run a campaign then how do they get publicity for their candidate
and number two and it goes right along with the first problem of having no money how does bob dole on a daily basis get on television and confront president clinton on all these issues if he doesn't have at least a little bit of a pulpit called the majority leadership in the senate
this is a very tough situation and many people who now believe it was a mistake to take on both jobs realize that bob dole out of money doesn't have many options right now
that thought is his retaining the majority leadership helping the campaign or hurting the party
in my view it's hurting the campaign
let me tell you why
it's not the obvious reasons that the last two weeks have been terrible or that the senate is absolutely ungovernable so the notion that bob dole can control the senate and control his message is unsound it's simply that he doesn't have time to concentrate as much as he would like on the campaign
how do you prepare for speeches
how do you prepare for appearances
what do you do to get your message out on a consistent basis
if you're full time majority leader in as difficult a times as we have now and with tom daschle the minority leader pinning you down from his position in the senate and keeping you tied up in knots then i think you're looking at a situation in which it isn't working out very well and it is hurting his candidacy
do you sense that the dole campaign is facing a crunch point and some major changes will have to be made in the very near future
well they've already made changes twice
you know they've gotten rid of their pollster they've changed their communications department they've changed their media adviser and so i think the changes are becoming a little bit worn out
however they do need to put the communications division in good hands and i think they're working towards that
but they've got to take a look if they don't make some progress the next sixty days they go into let's say july and this campaign is still twenty points down they're going to get a lot of panicky republicans around the country
now i don't put much stock as you know in early polls but in this particular case where the polls are getting a little bit wider week by week two or three points i think there's a trend here that the dole camp has to be concerned about
o. k.
what about your point that you made several months ago that you thought ross perot would jump into the race
do you still think so
i still think he will
very few people agree with me i should add that as a disclaimer
but i think that he would find himself maybe either bored or not sufficiently paid attention to if he didn't get in so i think maybe at the final analysis hubris will still drive him into the race
steve another issue very briefly because we're just about out of time the whitewater taped testimony given by president clinton source of political fodder
oh perhaps if it ever gets from underneath the seal of the court records but whitewater so far has been just what we thought it would be a year ago kind of a drip drip drip annoyance but not watergate
all right steve bell of the steve bell group thank you so much for being here
thank you deborah
i will not be a candidate for president or for any other elective office in nineteen ninety six
colin powell has kept saying that over and over again from his own lips from the lips of people who are close to him
and yet former vice president dan quayle just a few days ago linda was saying well if somebody would just go to him in the right way and appeal to his love of country they can change his mind
well i wish dan quayle would stop it
as a matter of fact i it seems that the republicans and i i'm surprised with dan quayle because i always thought of him as being conservative
i think it's bad advice
i think that if colin powell were to be selected it would divide the party
you know there's a perfect job for colin powell and i hope that dole discovers this
he really should be appointed and i think he would take the job as secretary of state
now not secretary of defense
i think he would do a beautiful job as secretary of the state and it would be a prestigious job i think one that he would let's face it the vice presidential job is just not enough for colin powell
to jerry
it would please everybody
one reason dan quayle said that is because he would like to see bob dole beat black in the fall
well
and he assumes that colin powell is one of the best props dole could have in pursuit of that victory
i think that's
but not in that job
i think that's the wish and the hope of many republicans and
who think they're conservative
sort of
even some conservatives but not the far conservatives
the party is divided already
you've got you've got conservatives taking potshots at bob dole before he has named anybody to any appointment appointed anybody to any possible position
you've got you've got basically meltdown on capitol hill bob dole losing on some fronts and losing the support of even some of his best friends in the senate on on some issues like the health insurance issue that they took up last week
so he's got a serious problem and i think although no i have no reason to believe that colin powell has whispered in the ear of dan quayle and suggested that he would he would be willing to do it now i think that there is a lot of hoping being done by people who who do want bob dole to have a better chance than than anybody thinks he has right now
susan i want to run this piece of strategic advice past you
linda has said and i've heard other republicans say one way for dole to at least cut down what one columnist called the circular firing squad among his own party members would be to go ahead as she suggested name some cabinet members name his own v. p.
but i would think there are also some dole advisers suggesting that you go ahead and end the sniping that way but you might also end any suspense and interest in the republican convention this summer if you put all your cards on the table this early
well you got first that problem
the second problem is that it's a move from weakness
the third problem is they'd snipe at that
i mean the real problem you know they wouldn't like the secretary of state or linda would like him and somebody else wouldn't like him and he would be conservative or he wouldn't be conservative
then you'd have half the guys saying oh no
actually i don't want to do it and the press would say my goodness
dole is even weaker than we thought
i'm having just an amazingly marvelous time watching this because usually presidential elections are about drawing differences between democrats and republicans
this year the whole election seems to be about drawing differences among the republicans with a nominee bob dole who wants to rush
well now let's
right down to the white house and agree with the president
let's give the democrats
and his party after him
equal time
they've got problems of their own as well
we had the president sitting four and a half hours with a battery of lawyers in the white house over the weekend testifying on videotape in a criminal trial where he's not an innocent bystander as jimmy carter was
he is the business partner formerly of the guy who's on trial for fraud charges
that's a a horse of a different color isn't it linda than jimmy carter's trial appearance
well that's what's so amazing about all of this
we we hear susan and other liberals you know dukakis people talking about
hang on susan
if you can't win call names
you get to laugh in a moment
let linda finish
talking about how weak and and how dole is just not doing well
and then we turn and look at bill clinton and his wife who are under investigation
this is just one of the problems he has is whitewater
let's not forget the paula jones problem that's lurking out there and looking like it's getting bigger day by day
dole looks like a shining star next to bill clinton when you really actually make the comparison
so i see this you know maybe we'll get to see what clinton said
i think we're going to hear a lot of he doesn't recall and that will look terrible when he does that
so let's just wait and see susan
i think that once this is you know really when the american people stop and compare and they think who can i trust already the polls show that they favor dole immensely if they care about trust
jerry was there anything telling in that the white house wanted to do this on videotape and apparently is not going to get that tape released because they were worried that the republican party would find some nice little snippet to use in a campaign ad
oh yes
not for bill clinton by the way
oh yes
well this is a political election year and the clinton administration has done one thing really right and that is to anticipate a lot of the problems that they might face this year in the election and move in and with their rapid reaction squad and deal with problems before they become huge problems
and that may be one of the reasons why clinton is doing better in the polls right now is so far ahead fourteen to twenty points ahead of dole in polls that have been done where people are asked would you vote for clinton or dole at this moment in time that may change as we get further closer down
i'm going to
the line
interrupt only because we're almost at the point we've got to take a break
and i want to ask susan as the law professor among us today what do you think of kenneth starr
i've read even democrats who have worked for him as independent counsel in whitewater say it is a diversionary tactic for the white house to start slamming him now to divert attention from their own problems
is he an honorable guy
can he conduct a good investigation
he may well be an honorable guy mary and he may well be able to conduct an honest investigation
but i think there is a danger in appointing people with political associations and political aspirations and political agendas to jobs as independent prosecutors
but none of this
there's a danger
was new
it was
i wouldn't
all out there when they appointed him
but i wouldn't appoint me to investigate newt gingrich because i would expect
i'll bet the g. o. p. congress wouldn't let you either
we're going to take a break
when we come back we will talk about o. j. simpson's murder trial on the big screen
would you shell out your money to go see that reprise of the case
stay with us
welcome back to our last few minutes
jerry we keep hearing from a lot of people that they say they are up to here with o. j. simpson murder trial coverage and yet hollywood is betting that they're not being candid and that they really will go and see a movie based on prosecutor chris darden's book
are they betting right
oh i don't think they i wouldn't put any money into that movie
i am still astounded though at the i may be wrong because i'm still astounded at the amount of interest that that trial managed to maintain for the period of a year
and to this day i think that o. j. simpson still commands a bit of attention when he's on television or radio so
but you're not going to go
but i'm not going to pay any money for that one
to susan one of the things that kind of bothers me about this this avalanche of books and articles and interviews we've seen coming out of this trial is i do think it raised profound questions about race relations racial and celebrity justice
and everything from the principals that's come out so far seems much more ready to turn a quick buck than to intelligently reflect to the public on what happened there
oh i couldn't agree with you more mary
i mean everybody just wants to get in on the action
and the only thing i fear is that we're all wrong and the fact that chris darden's book is number one and bob shapiro's book is on the best seller list and we haven't even seen johnnie cochran's book is a reflection of the fact that if you feed your children junk food three times a day they'll probably eat it
let's talk about what is going to concern hollywood next is that who plays whom
linda i'll go to you on this one
the usual young attractive talented black suspects are being considered for chris darden's role
denzel washington laurence fishburn who do you see playing the prosecutor
mary i have to tell you i don't care
and i really think that the public should declare this movie guilty of bad taste and give it the death sentence
i don't think that it's going to be a top money maker
do all of you really truly believe that though
number
looking at those book sale numbers
no
i think it'll
no
make a mint
i do too
no no no no
it can't
we can't have slipped to that depth
yes
well we will all know because no doubt this book movie will be rushed into production just as the books were
we are very appreciative all three of you were with us to start the week off linda bowles susan estrich and jerelyn eddings
and we're always glad everybody out there was with us as well
hope you're back tomorrow
we are going to be talking about waiting to inhale president clinton's new strategy trying to keep kids off illegal drugs
history is full of groups of people who leave behind a written account of their ways beliefs and stories but every now and then one of them will disappear almost without a trace
c. n. n. newsroom's andy jordan takes a look at one such group in part one of his series on the ancient americans
unless you look closely you may miss it camouflaged against the brown and green canyon walls of the colorado plateau but nestled amid the brush at mesa verde national park are ancient cities
two hundred people lived in one little area this big and you're like looking at wow and there are over twenty rooms here in cliff houses as well
the ancient pueblo indians are what some know from the navajo word anasazi made the four corners area of the u. s. southwest their home from around the time of christ to thirteen hundred
taking advantage of natural rock overhangs in the late eleven hundreds they moved down from mesa tops to craft intricate cliff dwellings
they used very simple techniques
they used the stone that was available and they used the dirt that was available
they shaped a lot of the stones and so you'll get a they have a pecked appearance on the face of the stones so they did go to a lot of effort to reach the appearance that they were after
what may look like a play fort to the child's eye is actually a pueblo village
it provided a place to commune with the earth and the great spirits through subterranean pits called kivas often the focal point of each village
most kivas have a supapu or spirit hole at the bottom what the ancient ones considered their place of emergence from the earth
many of these villages saw much of their growth at a time when in europe dante was writing and christians were on their crusades
archaeologists agree that the ancient pueblo people moved south of mesa verde where modern day descendants formed the hopi zuni and rio grande indian reservations
what archaeologists cannot agree on is why the anasazi moved out of mesa verde in the first place and that is the anasazi mystery
one theory has it that they left because of a long draught but they had weathered centuries of others draughts
overpopulation may have been the problem leading to competition between the villages for firewood and game animals
they developed what appears to be a highly civilized culture with a road system stretching from mexico to colorado
that opened the lines of communication and information
when strife occurred it would have occurred quickly through the whole society and perhaps maybe that is the issue
they had a lot more contact with each other
in fact many of the cliff communities are only a stone's throw away from the next
a place known as sun temple may have been the central gathering place
by the late thirteenth century the pueblans started feeling the heat and began building more kivas to please the spirits
anthropologists use clues from modern hopi tribes to the south to test one theory
a religious ritual called kachina ceremonialism was thriving further south where there was more rain and it was holding together communities that in pueblo country were falling apart
the dancing rites may have been inviting for the pueblo people running out of food dealing with the draughts fighting amongst themselves and needing a rally cry
i think we actually had an individual who started a cult movement
it was based on a fear of the change to the south so it was i think a fundamentalist reactionary movement
according to that theory the urge to stay put may have ended when that leader died or was discredited
they had basically one religion and that religion was based on the planet earth the sun and the sky and the rain and the earth keeping that in balance
perhaps more mysterious than their departure why the pueblo people never came back
their migrations in the past were always in search of the center place
they would often say well they were here in this area but it wasn't the center place and so they moved on
now they had found the center place there's no reason to come back
the only written clues the anasazi left behind are carved on rocks petroglyphs and painted on cave walls pictographs
they offer cryptic clues but no definitive answers about an ancient people who would leave behind the land they helped shape
andy jordan c. n. n. newsroom mesa verde national park
topping newsroom worldview today kuwait
people around the world were transfixed when the wealthy emirate was invaded by neighboring iraq five years ago
and what happened afterwards
this week we go to kuwait to find out in a special series by newsroom's davin hutchins
we begin today with a look back at how this small state became the center of a massive desert confrontation
five years ago the tiny emirate of kuwait emerged from the scurge of war began marching down a long winding road to recovery
on august second nineteen ninety iraqi president saddam hussein marched half a million iraqi troops into kuwait to settle an old score citing unfair oil policies and territorial disputes
in the eight months that ensued five hundred thousand allied troops descended on the persian gulf to eventually expel iraq from kuwait in operation desert storm the largest military confrontation in recent history
few people can forget the vivid images which were broadcast around the world soldiers invading the kuwaiti beachhead the pillaging of kuwait city the one hundred hour ground assault and finally the jubilant liberation
but five years later saddam hussein remains in power
this pearl in the gulf faces an uncertain future
but more pressing than any external threats are the dynamic changes that are taking place within
the legacy of the gulf war left the world wondering about this little nation it so quickly defended and the kuwaitis share unanswered questions themselves the most pressing of which is who are we now and where are we going
i'm davin hutchins
travel with me to the middle east this week as the c. n. n. newsroom embarks on a search for kuwait rediscovered
kuwait a tiny kingdom an oil producing giant a modest arab nation and reluctant participant to history
yet modern kuwait had humble beginnings
in the eighteenth century fishermen in bedoin tribes founded the tiny village of kuwait on a coastal strip where the arabian peninsula and the persian gulf meet
as the trading of natural gulf pearls grew so did kuwait's revenues
but early in this century competition from cheap cultured pearls left kuwait's pearl based economy in tatters
but luckily for the kuwaitis they found another income source in the nick of time
crude oil was discovered in south kuwait in nineteen thirty eight and nothing has been the same since
when i arrived in the country i found only traces of the world that existed before the oil boom
expecting to find some old mud huts of yore i discovered instead sky scrapers hotels and satellite dishes mark the skyline today
there are still yawas or cafes home of the sheesha pipe where kuwaitis relax and trade stories but they can't begin to match the crowds at hardee's pizza hut mcdonald's and the mega shopping complexes
the pearl divers and traders have long since gone out of business but a handful of men continue to make their living off the sea at the old dow harbor
the fishermen i met still repair the nets maintain the boats set sail for three days to hopefully return with a bountiful catch
the locals will tell you the craftsmen still make traditional dows by hand but what i heard didn't seem like a big deal that is until i made it up to doha village where dows are still built by hand and the oldest and largest are still kept on public display
in downtown kuwait city i found few signs of destruction from the gulf war as well
except for a few selected sites you can't even tell the city was a battlefield five years ago
kuwait towers erected in nineteen seventy nine and probably the most renowned landmark in kuwait absorbed its share of destruction but today the towers completely refurbished attract their share of tourists
and those sites that remain ruined have usually been left that way deliberately
the kuwait national museum used to house the finest artifacts from kuwaiti society that is until it was looted by the iraqis
the emir left a burnt out shell as a ghost museum to serve as a vivid reminder of the destructive power of war
after half a century of reliable oil revenue kuwaitis have zoomed full throttle toward the future with little thought of preserving the past and much of what was preserved was decimated by the invasion leaving virtually nothing
so i found the best way to discover kuwaiti culture is to utilize kuwait's most prized resource the kuwaitis themselves
meet my closest friend bederon uteri who took me to the old suchow hareem or women's market to see a real slice of kuwaiti life and also to buy me my first dashdasha the traditional kuwaiti garment
after a long day kuwaitis usually stay up until the wee hours at their favorite douahnia which means little parliament
here kuwaiti men get together to discuss the news of the day play cards drink endless amounts of tea and arabic coffee and most important socialize with close friends
there isn't a city street in kuwait without a douahnia but some kuwaitis just want to get away from the hustle and bustle of the city and since kuwait is eighty percent desert what better place to go
another friend of mine bhataro subai showed me his desert livestock farm where i got a chance to milk his camels
though the wealth from oil and the legacy of the iraqi invasion has left kuwaitis in a struggle to hold onto their heritage it's easy to see that the key to the nation's soul still lies within the hearts and minds of the kuwaitis themselves
tomorrow we'll meet three journalists who'll share their own experiences about working as a westerner in the middle east strangers in a strange land
it could be the cheapest and easiest way to protect burma's rugged natural beauty
tom mintier looks at the nation's innovative use of clay
they still do things the old fashioned way here in burma
huge bags of rice are off loaded by human power
high technology is limited here
these cans of raw sugar are moved from boat to river bank much as they have been for a hundred years
there is no shortage of workers in burma but other resources are in limited supply
wood is still used here as a fuel for cooking
so much is being used across burma that some people are concerned that one day there won't be enough wood to go around
cook fires like this one use three rocks to support the pot
wood is shoved beneath to keep the pot boiling
it's a very inefficient way for gathering the heat and using the fuel and thus more pressure on the forests as more fuel is needed
to help correct this the united nations has come up with a simple solution a more efficient stove
this clay cook stove only costs the equivalent of one and a half u. s. dollars but it could help save the forests here
it only takes ten days to pay for itself with wood savings
gardner says many burmese villagers are now making the switch
the demand for the fuel wood stoves far exceeds the supply so what we're trying to do in the context of our grassroots work with communities is to train local potters in the production of fuel wood stoves because we see an extraordinary demand for them
the u. n. has been distributing these pamphlets urging women to change their cooking habits but change will not come easy in this society
just about everything here is cooked over a wood or charcoal fire from the hot tea you have for breakfast to bread baked in an earthen oven
they all use the same source of fuel
but burma unlike many other countries where forest reserves have already been depleted still has time to change
closed off for nearly thirty years to the outside world the country is just now starting to develop
the u. n. program and the little clay stove they're offering may not change history but it could save a few trees
tom mintier c. n. n. rangoon
for the next few minutes we'll be talking about anxiety disorder
if you have a question on this subject here's the number to call four oh four two two one one eight five five
as we mentioned an estimated twenty three million americans suffer anxiety disorder and many of them don't even know it
the national institute of mental health has called for a day of screening this wednesday for americans to get tested for the problem
joining us now from washington is una mccann
she's with the national institute on mental health unit on anxiety disorders and dr. mccann a few moments ago we listed what people should get tested for if they think they're affected by panic disorders phobias obsessive compulsive disorder traumatic stress disorder and generalized anxiety disorder
now that's assuming they know what those are
so how do you classify an anxiety disorder and how is it different from say mental illness
well the anxiety disorders as a group are mental illnesses
in fact they are the most common mental illness in the united states
as you might guess by the name anxiety disorders all of them have a common thread and that is anxiety is a key component
each of the disorders you mentioned panic disorder obsessive compulsive disorder phobias and that also includes social phobias as well as specific phobias post traumatic stress disorder and generalized anxiety disorders those are the anxiety disorders that we are going to be targeting on national anxiety disorder screening day which is may first
and this goes well beyond just having a few heart palpitations because you're nervous about something
that's right although that can be one of the symptoms of some of these disorders
each of them have their own cluster of hallmark symptoms
for panic disorder the hallmark symptom is a panic attack sudden intense fear anxiety accompanied by physical symptoms and often fear that you're going to die
obsessive compulse disorder is characterized by repeated unwanted thoughts that keep recurring even though they don't make sense or compulsions repeated acts that you can't stop yourself from doing
social phobia is characterized by a fear of scrutiny or humiliating yourself in social situations
post traumatic stress disorder occurs after a life threatening incident or a natural catastrophe where you become often depressed have symptoms of hyper arousal you avoid situations that remind you of the event
often that's also accompanied by sleep disturbance
and finally generalized anxiety disorder is excessive worry in situations that the worry is not appropriate and often accompanied by physical symptoms such as nausea headaches trembling
o. k. let's take a call
milwaukee go ahead
hi
are these attacks sometimes brought on by something that you're really not aware of
you know you just kind of think that maybe there's something wrong and you just feel so sick all over
sometimes i've had to drop to the floor because i did feel like i was going to die but i couldn't you know focus on you know what was causing me the stress
right
by definition to have panic disorder some of the panic attacks and that sounds like what you were describing need to occur out of the blue spontaneously for no apparent reason
if you have repeated attacks like these accompanied by fear that you're going to have more you probably have panic disorder
now with all of these disorders they can certain medical disorders can mimic these symptoms so it's important that you make sure that you don't have another disorder that could be causing your symptoms but you could very well have panic disorder
do a lot of people feel fear or embarrassment about reporting these disorders to their doctor because you know they kind of think to themselves you know well what is wrong with me
there's no reason for it
am i losing my mind
absolutely
despite great advances in recent years there is a stigma attached with any mental illness and the anxiety disorders are no exception to that
for example with panic disorder probably fewer than one in three people actually seek help for that disorder despite the fact that it's very treatable
between seventy and ninety percent of people with panic disorder given the proper treatment can make dramatic improvements in their life
that's encouraging
massachusetts go ahead
yes my question is also about a medical affiliation
is it possible that a person could be diagnosed with tachycardia but in fact actually be having panic attacks
absolutely
tachycardia or rapid heartbeat is a symptom of a panic attack
it's also seen often in social phobia post traumatic stress disorder and generalized anxiety disorder
so absolutely
dr. mccann how well does the medical or health care community react to anxiety disorders
well the national institute of mental health over the last three or four years has been conducting a campaign both to educate the public as well as health professionals about anxiety disorders
and largely through efforts by the national institute of mental health and its researchers and its funded researchers great strides have been made in one the acceptance of anxiety disorders and two the knowledge of anxiety disorders
one of the things i thought was really fascinating in doing the research for this was the cost of anxiety disorder just to the workplace or in personal health care costs
right
in nineteen ninety the anxiety disorders were estimated to cost forty six billion dollars
that's about one third of the entire mental health care budget
o. k. connecticut go ahead
o. k. i just have a question
i want to know if anything physical can cause anxiety
well no one knows exactly what causes anxiety disorders but we do believe that it's a mixture of things including genetic heritability
in other words if a relative a blood relative of yours has an anxiety disorder you do have an increased chance
we think that brain neurochemistry certainly would qualify as physical is intimately involved in producing these symptoms
and also certain environmental factors seem to be quite important
in particular certain types of stresses can make anxiety disorders worse
another call from connecticut
yes i'm calling from stratford connecticut
i was wondering i was listening to you speaking before about compulsive behavior or after you had like a motor something happened where you avoided the places
right
and in my case i feel that since i had a series of motorcycle accidents that i feel drawn more to pursuing instead of getting away from the situation
so i find myself say the next bike i would own i would be more inclined to be reckless
right
than to draw back from it
so is that
that's not exactly post traumatic stress disorder but there is no doubt that you're reacting to what happened to you
in a sense you're trying to prove to yourself that you don't have a problem with this so it's called counter phobic behavior
you actually pursue the thing that perhaps is most terrifying to you
all right we should note too before we go here dr. again as you said there is a high success rate in terms of treatment so again we do want to encourage anyone who feels they suffer from one of these disorders to call this wednesday or don't even wait till wednesday
for more information on anxiety disorders you can call one eight hundred minus sixty four panic one eight hundred minus sixty four panic and for information on how to get screened for anxiety disorders the number is one eight hundred four four two two oh two oh
and dr. una mccann we thank you very much for joining us today
well they're calling it the secret weapon for the u. s. olympic cycling team and today officials are unveiling the so called super bike the second
c. n. n.'s larry smith reports that these hot wheels have been nearly four years in the making and hope to give cyclers an edge over their competition
it has been four years in the works super bike the second
it's a narrower shorter faster stronger lighter bike
we've reduced the weight and we've increased the stiffness we've reduced the aerodynamic drag
i think we're pretty confident this is the fastest bike out there
for the u. s. team that wasn't the case at the nineteen ninety two barcelona olympics
in ninety two you get out there in the warm ups and everybody's got their bikes and everything you know like well gee you know
you know i wish we had that kind of stuff and now you know the shoe's on the other foot
it's on the other foot because after a lackluster performance at the ninety two games where a highly touted u. s. team won only two bronze medals u. s. cycling went back to the drawing board and formed project ninety six a twelve dollar million program whose primary goal was to come up with the most aerodynamic bike in the world
every place on the bike that we see the wind coming across it it we have paid attention to that and made amends to make the air flow over it smoother and better
tests at the general motors wind tunnel proved that the bike is indeed an aerodynamic masterpiece
just the fact that they've tested so fast in the wind tunnel gives us the advantage of knowing that we're going to be the fastest you know most well equipped team on the line when it comes to atlanta
so that's a huge advantage psychologically for us
psychologically it makes a huge difference getting on the line knowing that you're not impaired by anything that you nothing is going to hold us back
it's all going to be our training
you know our training program is better than it has ever been before so there's really i guess having the fastest bike just you know there's no excuses when you get to the competition
but everyone involved in project ninety six knows that a bike alone even a super bike won't bring home gold in atlanta
the bottom line is it always comes down to the engine
the bike doesn't propel itself but you know it just helps us get there a little sooner we hope
larry smith c. n. n. sports
for some kids the just say no to drugs' campaign of the nineteen eighties seems like ancient history if they know about it all
and with that and the spread of a cheap and dangerous drug in mind president clinton today took the wraps off his new strategy to crack down on illegal drugs
c. n. n.'s jill dougherty traveled with the president to coral gables florida
jill
well bobbie under fire from both republicans and from some democrats for not doing enough to control drug use in the united states president clinton made his announcement at a middle school on coral gables florida saying the focus of his nineteen ninety six drug control strategy would be young people and he announced a new and separate strategy to fight mephamphetamine
that's a destructive and addictive synthetic drug
they're calling it the poor man's cocaine it's now concentrated in the west and southwest but it's moving east
it two years deaths from this drug have doubled
i'm glad it's not here yet but we have to stop it before it comes the crack of the nineteen nineties and we are going after it right now
the president's program against drugs has five goals
one motivate youngsters against drugs
two increase public safety by reducing drug related crime
three reduce the health welfare and crime costs resulting from illegal drug use
four interdiction that's targeting the drug threat on land sea and in the air and finally cutting drugs at the source both international and domestic
the administration says the new strategy is not a silver bullet but a long term plan
i am announcing today a new and intensified strategy to battle drugs that builds and improves on the work we have done over the last three years calls for more resources from the nation than ever before and targets those resources better than ever
this national drug control strategy of nineteen ninety six as general mccaffrey said is meant to be a ten year plan
the president says that he is asking congress to increase the money for anti drug efforts by nine point three percent and he also says it should be a bipartisan issue
bobbie
jill we understand this was the main thrust of the president's trip but is it fair to assume there were some political overtones as well to this journey
there are
actually there are a number of them
anti drug policies and crime are big issues in this presidential election campaign and even as the president was arriving here in florida the florida republican party was putting an ad in the miami herald purportedly offering federal judgeship for sale and that ad facetious in a way was against the clinton nominee for u. s. appeals court that is charles bud stack
he's a democratic activist and a florida lawyer and republicans claim his only qualification for the job as judge is his fundraising ability for the democrats
the white house says that bud stack is qualified they're sticking with him and they say that republicans instead of placing ads in the paper should go along and work with them in a bipartisan manner
bobbie
all right jill dougherty in coral gables florida thanks very much
just a few minutes ago we reported about the massacre of tourists on the australian island of tasmania
at least thirty four people are known dead after that shooting rampage and the subsequent fire
police say the suspect in custody has a history of mental problems
this kind of story makes us wonder how or why could anyone be driven to kill dozens of innocent strangers
professor charles strozier joins us from our bureau in new york
he's an expert on violence from the john jay college of criminal justice
welcome professor
after the dunblane scotland disaster one of the city fathers there said evil has come to our town and we don't know why the same question i imagine could be asked about the port arthur incidents over the weekend only we're asking the question of you
have you got any answer to why
well evil certainly has come to tasmania
i mean it was a very tragic event and these they seem they seem to be happening more frequently around the world in the last ten twenty years certainly
and why is that
well that's very hard to say
i mean it relates to i mean there have always been individuals who are prone to that kind of violence but one has to suspect that there's a copycat issue going on
in other words the more it happens the more likely it is to continue to happen where an individual goes into a mcdonald's or shoots from a tower and kills really large numbers of people in a short period of time
it seems to be also indiscriminate in the sense that in dunblane it was a man who had a troubled past selecting children at random to massacre in this case it was a deliberate act of random firing but not sporadic spraying gunfire but picking out people and deliberately knocking them down
right
that's one of the more frightening aspects of it
it is indiscriminate but you mentioned the there's a kind of a numbness of the killer to his victims
and i think that's related to a lot of things but one thing that one might stress is as the destructiveness of the weaponry in the last couple of decades anyway as the destructiveness has increased the empathy for victims tends to decrease so that the complete one of the things that is so striking about william bryant is what would seem to be the complete lack of empathy for the people he killed just a flatness a numbness
and that's you know not unrelated to the killing potential of the weaponry that is available for him
the psychology of it usually we hear of these most horrible crimes being committed and ending in some form of suicide
in this case the man threw his gun down and tried to put the fire out
his clothes had caught on fire
he did not commit suicide
like many of these crimes the killer wants to take as many people with him because he knows he's going out anyway
right
that is one of the surprising things about it that he came out from the fire without killing himself
there certainly is a there are issues of individual transcendence here that we don't know much about yet
these things are always much clearer in retrospect than trying to anticipate them
but whatever issues in his individual psychology were going on you know we'll have to wait for later knowledge
you can't really anticipate a crime like this can you
number
you really can't
i mean the only the general question is with the widespread availability of guns and particularly guns of great destructiveness one has to feel that these sort of random issues of random examples of such violence will probably keep occurring
so we also know that tasmania has one of the least restrictive gun laws in australia
can we hang part of the blame on that
maybe but there are certainly plenty of guns readily available in the united states
i mean it's a worldwide phenomenon almost one might say an epidemic that we're confronting and certainly we have quite a bit of experience with it in this country and it would seem to be spreading in part of an overall global process
isn't it usually thought of as a u. s. a. phenomenon
didn't it
well you mean whether we have the industry standard that may be the case
we certainly have pioneered in mass killings but it's also not restricted to the united states
and mass violence it seems that each crime becomes more intense more heinous than the last crime
does media play a role in any of this the reporting of it
oh undoubtedly undoubtedly
i mean you know we live in a culture of violence and we're immersed with images of violence and destructiveness and death and killing
most people are the vast majority of people of course are not influenced by those images to go out and become violent themselves but the people who are most troubled themselves psychologically the most vulnerable are the ones who are most influenced
so what do people like you do when you brainstorm this
you sit in a room and try to come up with a solution try to come up with a cause what
well we're i'm involved in a research center and we try to study it both what's going on in contemporary times what has gone on in the past
but we always consider it's ethically important to always consider issues of policy that relate to trying to solve to contribute to a public debate that will that can move away from examples of such killing
is there some policy now that you would change
if you had the ear of the president of the united states right now what would you tell him vis a vis violence
myself
a lot more gun control
as long as the world is has so much so many weapons available i think it's almost inevitable that in certain cases they're going to be used
all right
charles strozier of john jay college of criminal justice thanks so much for being with us
thank you
i guess elsa has got some erratic dresses to show us
erratic
that's the wrong word
oh that's even better
o. k.
and i think it's you could say herb but somehow that doesn't have a cache
i think it's herve leger
oh
my my
erotic yet romantic
dresses that reveal more by showing less
that's the direction in the spring collection from paris designer herve leger
leger still does body hugging bandage outfits that fit like a second skin but this season he covers them with crocheted or sheer long layers
so under you know you still have the bandage
it makes you like a garden
it makes your body look beautiful
and on the top of it it's more different it floats
how are you doing that
with covering the bandage dress with all sorts of fabric lace and and ribbon of organza and so they look totally different
what colors are you using
i have fallen in love with marshmallow colors so i have a range of beautiful pink and orange pink green turquoise but sort of white pastel then of whites and i've done a lot of black also this time which i didn't do for a few seasons
like the spring
why not
black is for all year long
leger says his daywear is as sophisticated as his evening outfits
in my shop now and in the companies always sophisticated clothes so every time you know even my daytime is not really casual
so it's of course i dress women for the day but the evening is very important
what are you doing for the daytime
daytime and sweaters with big full skirts and very short dresses with flair you know
that's herve leger with his spring collection
elsa klensch c. n. n. paris
pretty i thought
yeah
i gotta quit eating red licorice that's for sure
kind of liked that organdy with that arab stuff
nice try
the university of south florida in tampa is practically deserted
nearly fifty thousand people who would normally be at the university right now stayed away from the campus today because of terrorist threats to set off a bomb at the school
rob north of c. n. n. affiliate w. f. l. a. is live in tampa
what's going on there
lou it's very very quiet here at the university of south florida
you can probably see over my shoulder there are cops all over this campus
right now this is probably the safest place in tampa bay
the university of south florida in tampa is technically open but security is intense
a self styled mid east terrorist groups the war purgers sent a letter to the student newspaper newspaper last month
the author threatened to bomb a campus building and kill a female professor today
that threat prompted the university to hold finals a week early and impose unprecedented security on campus today
i certainly would like to be able to identify this letter writer and my feelings are more feelings of anger that we as an institution can be intimidated at all
the university has no idea whether the letter is a hoax
f. b. i. agents searched a campus dorm room friday but so far has made no arrests
u. s. f. says only one quarter of the regular faculty and staff are on campus today
secretary marilyn matthew is at her desk on the sixth floor of the library
there is a little fear but security is again at its peak and i'm confident that if anything happens i basically have my affairs in order but i'm pretty confident
it's more secure today i think than a lot of other days
now president castor is calling all of this a learning experience and she hopes the university will be able to return to normal tomorrow
back to you lou
will it return to normal tomorrow
well i think there's going to have to be a new heightened sensitivity to security issues here
this is of course a university and open campus but i think it's going to have people thinking more about these security issues
o. k. rob north thanks for helping us out
rob is with w. f. l. a. down there in tampa
today in idaho former los angeles police detective mark fuhrman once again is testifying under oath about his involvement in the o. j. simpson case
he is providing a deposition in the wrongful death civil suit brought against simpson
and while fuhrman was a major factor in the simpson trial he is playing a different role this time
c. n. n.'s charles feldman has our report
in most criminal trials it is the defendant who commands center stage
the o. j. simpson trial was not like most other cases
sharing the spotlight with simpson former los angeles police department detective mark fuhrman or as he came to be known the man who found the glove
i looked down and i saw a dark object
i was probably still fifteen twenty feet away and i kept walking closer
then i saw when i was a few feet away that it was a glove
as he did in the preliminary hearing fuhrman repeated that testimony during the trial itself but by then simpson's lawyers had effectively turned the tables
fuhrman was cast as a racist rogue cop who was out to get simpson and may have simpson's lawyers strongly suggested even planted key evidence
to try and prove that fuhrman is a racist simpson's lawyers set a trap by asking fuhrman whether he used what was often referred to gingerly as the 'n word although f. lee bailey did not mince words in his cross examination
now you say on your oath that you have not addressed any black person as a nigger or spoken about black people as niggers in the past ten years detective fuhrman
that's what i'm saying
and then came the bombshell
it was revealed that fuhrman had indeed used the so called 'n word several times during taped conversations with a would be screenwriter who was looking for color for a script she was working on about the police
that coupled with news that fuhrman was now under investigation himself for alleged acts of police misconduct he talked about on those tapes resulted in fuhrman taking the fifth amendment
now detective furhrman did you plant or manufacture any evidence in this case
i assert my fifth amendment privilege
the high profile role fuhrman played in the criminal trial experts say is not likely to be repeated in the forthcoming civil suit against simpson filed by families of nicole brown simpson and ron goldman
mainly they say that is because in the civil trial simpson himself will have to take the stand something he did not do during the criminal proceedings
since the now retired detective is still under investigation in california any testimony he might be able to offer is bound to be severely limited
charles feldman c. n. n. los angeles
well the race to be number one depending upon how you look at it can be a great motivation or a huge source of stress
yes it can
the stressful side as a matter of fact is apparently what some high school officials across the country are looking at so as c. n. n.'s robert vito explains a traditional class competition is beginning to disappear
it is a long standing tradition at graduation a high school honors is valedictorian and salutatorian the number one and number two academic achievers in the graduating class
but the practice of honoring these young achievers is under fire
about half of all u. s. high schools have stopped or are stopping the competition according to a national survey of school administrators
that tense pressure those kids are in they shouldn't be
critics say the race to be number one or number two in the class pits students against students and is emotionally unhealthy and they want the honor eliminated
but some students involved in that race disagree
in this advanced senior english class at western high school in fort lauderdale florida the valedictorian competition is a hot topic
i think it's ridiculous that people want to eliminate it because it's something good
the three candidates for the top academic spot at this year's graduation are students in this class
khiarra bridges melissa droller and alison griffin all have identical grade points averages and straight as since they were in grade school
you have achieved
i'm proud of all three of you
i never saw ugliness ever and yet in some schools i know that can happen
all three say there is no jealousy among them they're good friends and they say critics are over reacting
i mean i never really like sat down and said if i'm not valedictorian i'm just going to kill myself
but a task force in their school district has formally recommended dropping the race for valedictorian pointing to the stress the competition causes
these students say that's not realistic
you go through college there's the job market the whole world out there is full of pressure and competition
it's not something you're forced to do so it shouldn't be an issue
western high's principal wants the practice of naming a valedictorian stopped
he agrees with other administrators who say it's unfair to students who don't get academic recognition but deserve it
i don't have just one or two really brilliant young people
i have quite a few
to lessen the pressure on these top students the principal abruptly called a halt to the race for valedictorian and declared it a tie
all three will graduate valedictorians in western high's class of nineteen ninety six
as for the bright young students who will share the honor they don't mind at all
robert vito c. n. n. fort lauderdale florida
tonight a renewed effort to fight drugs
will it work
we can't stop drugs if our schools hospitals and communities don't have the tools they need to get the job done
we have to have the support of congress to do this
make no mistake about it
this has got to be a bipartisan american nonpolitical effort
for three years where has this leadership been
it's been actually vacant
it's been silent
it hasn't existed
live from washington crossfire
on the left geraldine ferarro
on the right john sununu
in the crossfire john walters former drug policy director under the bush administration and in new york democratic congressman charles rangel
welcome to crossfire
today in miami president clinton announced his new drug plan
as soon as he did the republicans yelled politics some liberal democrats yelled not enough the republicans want more jails
the democrats want more jobs
general mccaffrey the clinton drug czar wants a strategy that will work
the numbers aren't good
though cocaine use is down thirty percent in the last three years use of marijuana by young people aged twelve to seventeen has almost doubled between nineteen ninety two and ninety four
though drug related homicides are down twenty five percent the annual social cost of illicit drug use is sixty seven billion dollars mostly from the consequences of drug related crime
is this just a presidential political ploy or is it a savvy solution to a problem we're all concerned about
john
congressman rangel thank you for joining us
you've been one of the most consistent opponents of drug use and i will give you credit you have been steady in your criticism of both republicans and democrats on this issue
three years ago you said that someone has to tell president clinton it's drugs stupid what did you do in the last three years to finally get this president to change his mind and perhaps in an election year begin to pay attention to the drug issue
it wasn't anything that i personally have done
i think most people would recognize that drug abuse is the biggest threat that our nation has and people can say it's political because it's a political year but one thing is clear we can't win this war if we're going to be partisan and we can't win this war with meetings and strategies
we have to bring in the private sector the media
a war requires all of the effort and one of the things which i think is short in this so called strategy is the recognition that we have to have our kids educated we have to have them with hopes and dreams and the possibility to get jobs
if you take a look at the million people we have in jail that are drug related offenses you will find that the overwhelming number of them are unemployable
we've got
congressman rangel
we've got to do better
you're right education's a very important part of this and attitude is a very important part of education and young people take messages from what a president does
this president had as one of his first acts cutting by eighty three percent the white house drug staff
that sends a message
the young people in america got the wrong message
how do you get a message out of the white house that's on the constructive side after they started off on such a wrong foot
well john let me tell you this
i wish every kid in america was watching the president of the united states but i think you're just overly optimistic on that
i did not strenuously over object when the so called drug czar's office was cut because i thought that making the drug czar part of the cabinet that he would be just orchestrating a strategy but we would hear from the secretary of education we would hear from the secretary of state the secretary of labor the secretary of health and human services
i thought the generals would be just coordinating the real fighters and so naturally when those resources wasn't available then we lost the last czar
he didn't call me he didn't send flowers he just left and so i'm hoping that this outstanding general who knows how to win a war will be there to utilize those resources and he says that the president is prepared to back him up a hundred percent
so it is not really the number of jobs you have in the office
it's how many people have you brought to the battle
i'm so glad to see that the president has got this issue on television
he's got it in the newspapers
i'm waiting for the private sector to say we can't win this war of world trade if we've got a million americans in jail a million being arrested every year and
charlie let me
hundreds of thousands killed
let me kind of move over and ask mr. walters a question about this because so that we can have equal opportunity bashing here
you know we're talking about what the president has or has not done but you know the last two years this nation has been seized by newt gingrich and the contract with america
in the signed contract with america there is not one mention of drugs
now is it because republicans don't think that's important is that not a commitment to the american people or did they just forget it
well look the contract is a part of the legislative agenda
basically you cannot run
according to newt it's the whole thing
it's the picture
it's where they're going to go
sure and i mean and newt has expressed frustration about drugs saying we either ought to get more serious or we ought to say we're not going to be serious
look the problem here is not just what the president says although the president as a very important national leader sets an agenda here
the issue is what the institutions teach
you can't say one thing in the classroom and then say kids in the inner city are going to walk past open air drug markets that you say one thing in the classroom
we're not going to make it a foreign policy priority
we're not going to use the resources
general mccaffrey said drugs kill directly ten thousand americans a year
that's a foreign based threat for the most part
we're talking mostly about crack cocaine as the most insidious threat
it's not on the foreign policy radar
it's not on the radar for national security forces
as well as the kind of cultural leadership the president can bring the president not only didn't bring leadership
the president's most famous statement on drugs is i didn't inhale and the most famous administration argument here was joycelyn elders
that's a little bit unfair
i mean
no but that's what the kids hear
but that's no that's not
that's what the kids hear
that really isn't so
take a look at what mccaffrey is what's now coming through is his strategy and he is a new person in that position
he is handling it like it has been handled in the services and it they're a drug free basically drug free armed services now
what he is talking about is the strategy that deals with everything across the line
it deals with prevention deals with motivation it deals with interdiction it deals with cutting drugs at the source
that's all going to cost money
it's got to come from someplace
what is the congress going to do
and i love it when you say that newt says get serious about it but if there's no money coming out to support these programs you can talk about drug problems and not do anything about them if you don't have the bucks to do it
well first of all the administration's own strategy shows that overall drug spending increased every year
the problem is certain categories of drug spending didn't increase and the leadership and use of those effectively has not been the case
we cut interdiction
so we have cheaper more plentiful drugs
you're going to tell kids on the one hand don't use drugs but we have record low prices in recent years for marijuana for heroin and for cocaine on our streets
the question is we can use our military forces to protect the kurds and create no fly zones in iraq why can't we create some no fly zones to protect inner city kids
charlie rangel let's get the numbers on spending straight
from my in nineteen eighty nine to nineteen ninety the bush administration increased spending on the war on drugs from about six billion dollars to almost eleven billion dollars and over the period of four years almost doubled the amount spent
in the first two years of the clinton administration with a democratic congress the spending was virtually flat equal to the last year of the bush administration
with inflation that's an actual cut
how come you and your democrats in congress let this president literally gut the programs the first two years
i don't see how you can measure success just by the amount of bucks that we have
you used to throw those numbers at me all the time charlie
no no
what i'm talking
you used to say bucks were important
john john what i've always said to you and i'm talking about not president clinton or bush or reagan
i'm saying for twenty five years we've not heard from any secretary of state to deal with the real problems that we're facing with mexico
seventy percent of the drugs come across that border and i saw in the recent report that the drug czar left mexico the same language i shared it with ben gilman who's a republican saying that they promise to deal with corruption they're thinking about extraditing mexicans that's been indicted they're going to look at money laundering
we've got a hundred percent of the cocoa leaves coming out of peru and now we say peru it appears as though they're going to cooperate with us
i'm saying enough of being the nice guy
this is a threat to our national security
now you're talking about dollars
i tell you voices and action are better than dollars
the secretary of education's being paid
every secretary of education should be on the front lines saying america cannot succeed
our economy cannot afford to have a million people in jail
charlie we had a summit in colombia at cartegena in which the president of the united states and the secretary of the state focused on those issues
big deal
so you went to
now you have an administration that has pushed this aside that has given the wrong signal by their
john i'm
attitude that had a surgeon general that talked about legalizing drugs
and where is she
john i am so surprised that you would bring up cartegena
i stood i praised the president
he went to south america
he met in colombia
he brought the drug producing and trafficking countries there
has anything changed as a result of bush going there
we had ronald reagan
only during the bush years
let me tell you
not since the administration changed
let me tell you this
even when ronald reagan was there and i say it today i never thought that i'd miss nancy reagan but you know she was the just say no that was the campaign
bill bennett i thought he just talked but then when i didn't hear anymore talking i appreciate him too
so let us come together grasp this opportunity and see where we go from here
pointing out our failures in the past john will not help us here
well
we need america saying we've got a problem
we've got one president at a time one drug czar
let's support them
let me just add one thing though charlie since you're talking about people speaking out
let me ask you what has happened to bob dole
i mean here's a person who voted against the drug office creation of the drug office in nineteen eighty two
when the president introduced mccaffrey at the state of the union address perfect invitation for dole to speak about drugs in his response never mentioned the word
we have yet to hear him say anything
he's been part of the senate leadership for twenty some odd years and we've never heard him talk about drugs at any time
well there has been i think a problem in getting heard
i think there is a need to do more
the man is majority leader of the senate
how is he not heard
and as majority leader and with speaker gingrich after a lot of frustration they created a task force that released a report about the their own principles of a drug strategy several months ago
also i think you have to face the fact that senator dole was one who sent a letter to president clinton prior to the drug certification process and said the problems in mexico are more serious you better take them more seriously and i think many of those thoughts track what mr. rangel said
i just want to say one thing about successes
we were successful in reducing youthful drug use between its peak in seventy nine and ninety two by over eighty percent
we can do something about this if we pay attention
it is involves more than the president but it involves a leadership that doesn't undermine and doesn't dismantle institutions that are to protect the american people
when we come back we'll talk a little bit more about this issue and some of the programs that actually work
not long ago nancy reagan taught our young people to just say no to drugs
that was just one demonstration of committed leadership at the national level for which she was ridiculed at the time
for three years many of us have been campaigning to get the president to just say something and say it loudly and consistently
president clinton has been a. w. o. l. absent without leadership in this war against drugs
welcome back to crossfire
we're addressing one of america's most critical problems the use of drugs
our guests are john walters former director for drug policy in the bush administration and congressman charles rangel of new york who's been one of the most outspoken supporters of a comprehensive anti drug program
and joining us now is thomas hedrick vice chairman for the partnership for a drug free america
gerry
well if i could bring tom directly into the conversation i'm always surprised tom when i hear conservatives like bill buckley talk about addressing this problem of drugs with legalization
in the president's plan today he comes out firmly against legalization
who's right
i think legalization would be catastrophic as a suggestion as a part of drug strategy
legalization would increase the number of our kids who use drugs which would increase the number of people who are addicted which long term would increase the number of people who are involved in crime and violence and get aids and it would be a catastrophic move and in truth there is very little support from anybody who's really involved in trying to fight drugs and get fewer of our people to use drugs to that support
it's really not part of the national debate
tom hedrick one of the most effective things in trying to get kids to stop using drugs was the private sector partnership
they cut some great ads that really got the message across
is there any plans to continue and increase that effort
absolutely
we're going to do that and i think all of us we can point the finger of blame until the cows come home and it's really not going to help address the catastrophe of so many more of our kids using drugs over the past three or four years and this we know exactly what works
when our kids see using drugs as more harmful and less socially acceptable less the social norm they use less drugs fewer people use drugs and if we get that information as a society through the media in schools through our leadership congress and the administration in school education when our kids get that consistent message that no use is the clearly expected norm then they make better decisions just as they did from the nineteen eighties to the nineteen early nineteen nineties and the proof is in the facts
from nineteen eighty five to nineteen ninety four there are ten million fewer people using illicit drugs because we spoke as mr. rangel said with a unified voice that this is not acceptable
congressman rangel that private sector participation really is one of the good things that has happened
what other act though you've said you want the private sector to be more aggressive
tell us specifically beyond that what you want them to do
i would hope that the private sector with its vision as to what the labor force is going to look like beyond the year two thousand would get together with the secretary of education the president or other business leaders they recently had a meeting and demand from the united states that we provide the type of technicians that's going to be necessary for us to maintain a leadership role in world trade and to emphasize the fact that we need people who are healthy
we don't need a lot of jail mates
we have to have our public schools to produce
we have to have the job training related to the needs
our kids in the inner cities cannot be going to more funerals than graduations but you just can't tell kids just to say no
you have to give them a reason to say yes with pride and dignity and the ability to work
so the private sector to me whenever we have a war they're the first ones to come forward and say this is what we can contribute so we need that partnership
well the other thing though is that general mccaffrey has said that this is not so much a war as a cancer that we're treating and he says that you have to treat it in very many different ways
true you have to do the interdiction that you're talking about but he talks about education drug treatment counseling job training all the things that charlie is talking about
i mean where do you think those fit into the mix and do you think they have to be part of it
well they're important but there are two things
one drug use is an acid that corrodes hopes from everybody but particularly where it's concentrated
we already have drug legalization for all practical purposes
an open air drug market is drug legalization
public institutions as well as private communities have to close those down but we spend the federal government is going to spend over twenty billion dollars on job training in one hundred eighty five different programs
the whole drug strategy is fifteen billion dollars
we're not underspending in these areas
institutions are not performing
we have a hardcore aging addict population many of whom have been cycled through treatment over and over agagin
as long as we have uncontrolled supply we're going to have addiction
the problem is poor people who are the primary if you're not poor when you start out by the time you end up a hardcore addict you are a poor person
you get lousy education
you get lousy drug treatment
you get lousy public safety
we have to make public insti private sector is important but public institutions can't take a buy
but you've got
and point the other finger
you've got to move though in both directions you're saying both supply and demand
i agree
i agree
tom hedrick
could i interrupt for a second
i think the disagreement tends to mask that there's enormous consensus and agreement on what needs to be done
you know the five key points of the strategy reducing drug use among kids helping the safety of our citizens by reducing drug related crime better treatment better law enforcement and better interdiction all of us would agree each are necessary none is sufficient and i think republicans and democrats agree on that just as we saw with mr. rangel's participation on meet the press yesterday morning
we have good bipartisan support
we know from recent polls that the public understands how serious this issue is
we lest we give the impression that we don't know what to do and we are in total disarray and disagreement we are very much in agreement and we ask everybody
tom tom hedrick
to help
what can the private sector do to work on one area here congressman rangel has always focused on
that's these folks that get themselves thrown into prison with a drug problem and come out with a drug problem
they need job training
they need a rehabilitation program that works
what is the most effective way for the private sector to contribute to the solution of that problem
the best thing to do is for the private sector to get involved in the communication coalitions that are springing up all around the country
we know we have already almost five thousand community coalitions that have anti drug groups
that's where you're going to get the development of drug courts and in prison in jail treatment and for people who need real rehabilitation we can get good aftercare after therapeutic communities
that obviously includes helping keep people off drugs monitoring that through research and helping get them in job training to get them back into the mainstream of the community
this will all happen at the community when we focus our efforts on that source
tom hedrick thank you very much for joining us
congressman rangel it's always a pleasure to have you
john walters thank you for joining us
gerry and i will be back in a minute with our version of a solution
gerry welcome back
you and bill press are going to be alternating weeks and so we're back to an almost regular schedule here
yeah
it's going to be fun
back to the drug issue
as much as folks say you shouldn't look back i think a critical issue is leadership and the attitude it generates and this president i think got off on the wrong foot when his first contribution to the issue was don't inhale and the second contribution was a surgeon general that started talking about legalizing
but that's unfair
i mean first of all he had a terrific drug czar a guy by the name of lee brown who is the police commissioner of new york and who just was you know he was a good police commissioner and he came in and did the job that he had to do
i think now let me just say a point about the surgeon general
she's no longer with the administration as you know
the out fast
here's a man who is really making going to make a difference
mccaffrey's a very good drug czar
he will be the person who will get the
but i hope
whole program going but the other people
i hope there's some leadership with tough talk
john from the house and from the senate too
this bob dole shouldn't just be waking up now to the fact that drugs are a problem in this country
the first time the budget went up was when there was a republican congress
the first
well where has bob dole been
flat funding
from the left i'm geraldine ferarro
good night for crossfire
and from the right i'm john sununu
tomorrow night on crossfire gasoline prices out of sight
whose fault is it and what can be done about it
don't miss it on crossfire
the death toll has reached thirty four now in a shooting spree in port arthur a popular tourist city on the australian island of tasmania
nineteen people were wounded by a lone rifleman yesterday at least four of them critically
the suspect was captured when he ran from a bed and breakfast hotel after setting fire to it
he had held three hostages overnight in the hotel climaxing a rampage that left dead and wounded people in and around a neighboring cafe including children
at this location halfway up the hill between church and the tollbooth police came across the body of a woman and her three year old daughter lying on the roadway and the body of the six year old daughter who was behind the tree
it is our understanding that the mother was carrying the three year old baby when they were both shot and the six year old ran away trying to escape and was shot in the process
the gunman suffered minor injuries in the fire at the hotel and was taken to a hospital for treatment
authorities have not named the suspect but they say he is twenty eight years old and they believe he has a history of mental illness that may include schizophrenia
one report says the gunman is from the tasmanian capital of hobart that's about thirty miles from port arthur but there is no official confirmation of that report
now reporter john raedler is in hobart
he now joins us by telephone with a step by step account of the port arthur massacre
john
bill it all started about thirty hours ago
a man drove in to the port arthur historic site a revered relic of australia's convict era
he got out of the car which oddly had a surfboard on top of it
he carried a tennis bag
he walked into a crowded lunchtime cafe
he was muttering to himself
some eyewitnesses say they heard him talk about war and jets
he pulled a rifle from the tennis bag and started shooting
the death toll there in the cafe twenty people
he walked outside the cafe shot at a bus killed a bus driver three people standing by the bus
he then went on his rampage through this historic site
he shot the mother and the two little children you just heard about
he then commanded or commandeered a car and took that car and drove to this guest house where the whole thing reached its fiery climax today
but along the way he shot at more people several cars along the way shot and killed drivers shot and killed passengers
so it lasted less than twenty four hours but it ended with thirty four people dead at least and there is still one of the hostages unaccounted for police believe but that hostage perished in the fiery finale to today's events
so we're looking at a final death toll probably of thirty five
john quickly here do we have any idea at this time how that fire started
no we don't
police are assuming the man lit it
why he did so we don't know and also why he did what he did
police if they do know they're not saying
they do suggest they have some ideas but no official word on what motivated this person to such apparent heights of madness
o. k. john raedler from hobart by telephone this morning
thanks for that report
so bill what were you in your former life
i'm not quite sure and i don't know if i really want to know
well for the skeptical past life therapy may seem totally far fetched
yes but c. n. n. medical correspondent rhonda rowland says for believers who they were in previous lives affects who they are now
with each gentle breath you take allow yourself to become more and more deeply relaxed
the reverend betty lee believes she is taking clients jane and barbara back in time
when you pass through the door into the light you will be in another time
on a journey to meet their former selves in a former life
what year is it
it is a form of therapy called past life regression
the way i understand that it works is when you go back into a past life or what you think may be a past life you experience certain things certain emotions certain events
it is designed to help people with their problems
but what if you don't believe in past lives
i think anyone can do it as long as they are receptive to whatever images or thoughts or impressions that come through
find out the answers to your questions or your symptoms
lee puts her clients in a state of deep relaxation
then she brings them back and asks who they were and what they learned
i was an indian and the people around were white people
did you get any impressions about what year it was
one thousand eight hundred fifteen
what feelings or emotions did you carry over with you into spirit
fear and mistrust
betty lee has no education in psychology
her business card advertises air candling and tarot readings
well it has been very flaky and we're trying to clean it up a bit
winafred lucas has a doctorate in psychology
although a major advocate of past life regression she believes it should be used sparingly and only by a credited therapist
usually you do your therapy to bring the person into a better mental health
when he's ready then he can do past life
you don't choose past lives to help him get to get over a mental problem
scott lilienfeld is a psychologist and member of the georgia skeptics
he says there is no scientific evidence past life therapy works or is better than any other kind of psychological treatment
many of these techniques including past life regression therapy may actually distract attention away from the central problem and therefore discourage people from confronting and dealing with current issues of importance in their daily lives
believing that something in a past life has been touched may help some with the present but it may be a journey that can be bypassed by conventional therapy
rhonda rowland c. n. n. reporting
the senate and house differ over whether insurers should provide extensive mental health coverage
america's businesses are joining the debate saying their profits could be affected
we go back now to c. n. n. senior washington correspondent charles bierbauer on capitol hill this time with a guest
good morning again charles
good morning again andrea
the health care debate will go on because the two bills that have been passed in the house and senate do differ on a couple of things
one is medical savings accounts kind of like an i. r. a. for people to store up money to cover their health care and the other one is mental health care which is in the senate version
it calls for equal provisions for mental health care as well as physical health problems
that is to say it would raise the caps most health provisions have limits on how much mental health care there can be
we want to talk with jeff joseph who's a vice president for domestic policy at the u. s. chamber of commerce
mr. joseph good morning
good morning
the chamber is taking a position that this is unaffordable for most businesses
why is that
well the whole debate has been how we make health care more available more affordable to the masses
how do we make it priced so small businesses can make the product available to their employees since the small business people are the ones creating the jobs
and out of the blue for well intentioned reasons we had an amendment that said well mental health should get the exact same unlimited treatment that anything else gets and unfortunately it's undefined what that is
the cost could be so high it will basically create cost pressures to keep all other health care down
and that's what employers don't want to see right now
i have seen instruments that range from four to eleven percent of the cost of the increased mental health coverage
is that all that much
i mean that doesn't seem to be an exorbitant amount if you're going to have a healthier population
well i think the numbers show that every time health care costs go up one percent you lose about three hundred thousand people who can't afford it
we had a similar debate in nineteen eighty eight trying to get bipartisan support to get some of these reforms through
we didn't get them through then and since then thirteen million people have lost their private insurance because costs keep going up because employers can't afford to buy because they can't afford to make it available to their employees
this seems then to be solely based on cost not necessarily on questioning whether it's a good idea to provide mental health care for your workers
well ninety nine percent of all employers who provide coverage today provide some form of mental health coverage
but the point is that mental health treatments and protocols aren't as specific as other diseases
you know that if an appendectomy is going to require so much treatment so much cost and you can budget for that
mental health is a completely different subject not that there aren't serious people with severe mental problems
but the legislation is so vague that anyone who feels they saw elvis or went away in a u. f. o. and wants to talk about it for a long time could drive up those costs
but you also have extreme cases i don't know whether the parallel is apt but it's coincident in time
this case down in australia the tragedy of people being gunned down in the street by someone who apparently had mental health problems
if this is available the better care in the work place would that not lead to i can't make the association in this case but a general sense that the public is better cared for
well we're going toward managed care
managed care is the process of trying to make health care practice much more the science and less of an art
by doing so what you're finding in managed care systems is more emphasis on preventive care on pre diagnosis and because most health care policies have some mental health provisions now i think the tendency would be to start thinking about those things up front
but to have open ended coverage for anyone for any ill defined reason or any i don't feel good i don't feel good about myself i think i need a lot of sessions that can only drive up the cost for other people
as you talk to people here on capitol hill is it your expectation that this provision will go away when the house and senate try and reconcile their differences that this will not be on the final bill
well it is a political year
it's an election year
this legislation passed the senate one hundred to nothing which tells you there's a hundred senators who want to be in favor of health care reform
however this is a problem
it won't pass probably with this in it and so the question is are they going to blink and pass a straight bill that will do something positive for the country or they can get bogged down in politics
all right jeff joseph for the u. s. chamber of commerce
thanks very much for joining us
the debate is still to be settled
the house and senate do have to confer on their differences
that has not yet taken place
we'll keep our eye on it
thanks charles
charles bierbauer reporting once again from capitol hill this morning
you know for a long time it was a man's world
but pocket billiards is changing
more and more women are getting into the sport
yeah and at this time they're not only racking up the balls but big money prizes as well
c. n. n.'s janine sharell has more on a once shady game gone respectable
paul newman hustled audiences into the smoke filled rooms of pool halls in the nineteen sixty one oscar nominated film the hustler
twenty years later high stakes and swank surroundings in the movie the color of money raised the profile of billiards even further
professional pocket billiards is undergoing yet another transformation women
right now there's over forty million people playing the game and about fifteen million of those are women
women have been playing billiards for more than two hundred years
the twenty year old women's professional billiards association or w. p. b. a. is the oldest pro player group for the sport
member and ace player nesli o'hare credits the group with changing the face of pro pool
in the beginning i think we made great strides to try to get rid of and deter people from thinking that pocket billiards is directly related to gambling smoking and those things
today billiard rooms are often elegant to entice women and families
it's much more accepted now for children to start playing
their parents don't get terrified when the kids say this is what i want to do
i want to go down to the pool room
at the amsterdam billiard club in manhattan players chalk their cue sticks to classical music cappuccino and a woodburning fireplace
corporate sponsorship is seen as the key to making women's pro pocket billiards a big money game
w. p. b. a. sponsors like gordon's gin are helping the women to earn nearly as much as the men
the top tournament prize can now reach twenty thousand dollars
loree jon jones racked up prizes totaling nearly one hundred thousand dollars last year
jones has been at the pool table since she was four years old
jones sees herself as an impulsive player rather than analytical but she plugs that only makes the women's game more interesting
our initial drive is to shoot it so we're very exciting players actually
you know how in softball they say you throw like a girl is it possible in pool to play like a girl
my dad you want to know something
that's why i'm a great player today because i couldn't stand my father telling me you hit it like a girl
girl or boy pocket billiards are more popular than ever
recently recognized as a full metal sport it's now eligible for the world games and perhaps one day the olympics
janine sharell c. n. n. new york
the white house is turning its attention today to the nation's war on drugs
at this hour president clinton heads to miami where he will detail key goals of his administration's anti drug policy
c. n. n.'s claire shipman is at the white house to tell us more
good morning once again claire
good morning again andrea
the president as you mentioned is on his way to miami right now
we're told he's going to outline some of the administration's broader policy goals in the fight against drug use especially ways to motivate young people not to use drugs and some plans the administration has to tighten interdiction efforts
the administration has made drug control a front burner policy issue especially since it has been criticized for not doing quite enough early enough
also on the presidential agenda this week a meeting with israeli prime minister shimon peres
he's in the country for a few days
yesterday the two men met
they talked about increased missile defense
the united states is going to offer more missile defense support
also more intelligence support more early warning of enemy rocket attacks
they also discussed of course the recent accord to stop the fighting on the israeli lebanese border
both men then spoke at an aipac dinner the american israel public affairs committee
the president expressed u. s. support for israel but mr. peres warned of continued threats to the peace process
our commitment to israel's security is unshakable
it will stay that way because israel must have the means to defend itself by itself
in a time of shrinking resources we have maintained our economic assistance
we have sought to enhance israel's security to lessen the risks it has taken and still takes every day for peace
israel's qualitative military edge is greater than ever because we have kept our word
libya iraq and particularly iran are attempting to destroy the peace process
they use terrorist organizations like the hamas the islamic jihad the hezbollah to stop it through explosives and suicide terrorists to convince public opinion that it is impossible to reach peace
yet mr. president provided you mr. president provided the inspiration to the peace process and stood up against the enemies of peace
the president will hold a working lunch tomorrow at the white house with mr. peres
andrea
all right
thank you claire shipman
reporting live from the white house once again this morning
former c. i. a. director william colby is missing this morning
colby served as c. i. a. director from nineteen seventy three to nineteen seventy six under presidents nixon and ford
with more on the story we turn to david statter with c. n. n. affiliate w. u. s. a.
he joins us from la plata maryland
dave what can you tell us
right now we can tell you that the search is about to begin this morning in cobb island near cobb island maryland in the southern part of charles county just off the potomac river south of washington d. c.
the search was underway last night in the cobb island area for the former c. i. a. director
according to the charles county sheriff the former c. i. a. director apparently either slipped off his dock or out of his canoe at his summer home in the cobb island area
the search underway last night with helicopters and boats did not turn up the former c. i. a. director
they believe this morning they're going to use divers near his dock just off his home and off the potomac river and the wicomico river and they believe the divers possibly will find the body this morning
it's the type of thing that mystery novels are made of a former c. i. a. director missing a half eaten meal inside the house a computer that's still on
but they say no foul play involved
we talked to the sheriff earlier today earlier this morning
he said they got more information after they talked to the former c. i. a. director's wife
his wife did speak to him earlier in the day and he said he was going canoeing
he even indicated he wasn't feeling well but he was still going canoeing
she gave us a path of the way he normally goes in his canoe and apparently that's the way it went
we are told by the coast guard that the possibility is he actually may have slipped off the dock and that's the area that you're going to be looking at this morning
yeah we're going to look around the dock area be looking around the general area that he normally canoes according to his wife
we'll check all that out
the fire department and the coast guard are currently down there getting ready to form back up and begin the search again this morning
and andrea we talked to some neighbors in the area and they are the people who first reported william colby missing
they say they noticed something not right at the house
they are very close in his neighborhood
they checked the house out found the half eaten meal found the computer turned on found his car still there and they knew something wasn't right and that's when they notified authorities
back to you
dave are authorities saying how difficult the search may be
well it's an area right by the dock and they're hoping to have good luck this morning in try in their attempt to recover the body
if it's not there they're going to have to widen their search and again use boats
but they're concentrating their efforts on this one area and they believe that they will find what they're looking for
and how deep are the waters there
what kind of waters are we talking about
it's a good question
i don't know the exact depth of the water in that area but i can tell you that it was pretty dark when we were there this morning so we really couldn't see the water or get out close to the water this morning but we will be down there in a little while and we'll report back to you
all right
dave statter at c. n. n. affiliate w. u. s. a. joining us this morning with a report on former c. i. a. director william colby missing
thank you again dave
congress and president clinton are squabbling over a missile defense system for the united states
c. n. n. military affairs correspondent jamie mcintyre reports congressional efforts to speed up deployment may run into a presidential veto
both the pentagon and congress agree the u. s. needs a defense against intercontinental ballistic missiles
the question is how soon
our nation is not now threatened by missiles of mass destruction
no rogue nation today has i. c. b. m.s
only the established nuclear powers have i. c. b. m.s
the pentagon argues russia and china are no threat and north korea iraq and libya don't have long range missiles
we need to have a capability in case one of those countries gets one missile
today we have nothing
curt weldon backs a republican bill to force the pentagon to deploy a system as soon as possible
we could give the american people a national missile defense capability now within a three year time period at a cost of approximately two billion dollars
but the pentagon wants to wait three years saying money saved now and extra research time will mean a better system later
the choice is between building an advanced system to defeat an actual threat versus a less capable system to defeat a hypothetical threat
my position is that we should be doing both
we should be giving the people protection they do not have today and we should be looking to a more robust system down the road
the pentagon says deployment now would undermine treaties with russia such as start which eliminates thousands of nuclear warheads and the a. b. m. treaty which bans defenses against large scale missile attack
only if and when we decide to deploy a national missile defense should we need to decide whether we need amendments to the a. b. m. treaty
republicans argue ship based systems could provide limited protection without violating the a. b. m. treaty
the republican plan has so far passed a single senate committee
should it clear the full congress pentagon sources say it's heading straight for a presidential veto
jamie mcintyre c. n. n. the pentagon
we've been telling you all morning about the wildfires ravaging wide areas of new mexico and arizona
bo cooper of c. n. n. affiliate k. o. a. t. in albuquerque new mexico is covering one of the worst fires burning near los alamos national laboratory
he joins us now with the latest
good morning bo
good morning
it is very calm very quiet here right now but that is very deceiving because less than a mile from here fire is ripping through the tops of tree canopies and along the brush
you can see behind me this is the supply tent i'm actually at the fire base camp
this is where the firefighters are getting their supplies things that they'll need for today
firefighters have really been coming in from all over the country and a lot of them actually prefer to work at night when it is much cooler
without the right tools fixing this fire is impossible
making sure there is enough equipment to go around is tom kruger's job
whatever we order we're robbing from someone else that needs it but since this is the biggest game going right now we have all the resources
just you know so it's sensible but we have what we need
like these picks the firefighters use on the line
there are stacks of these laying around
the reason we have so many is because they get dull fast
you know we've got rocks and a lot of things that just chip up and dull the bits and so we have protectant colors
they take them out they use them for one or two shifts and then they get dull and we have to send them out to get them sharpened
safety gear is also on standby
o. k. we have a fire shelter it is right here actually
here is one that was used for demonstration purposes but this has saved a number of lives when we had a couple of deployments on this fire
the equipment comes in from all over
there is fire foam a coating they use on trees and houses if the flames make a threat
cases of drinks are here too
there are even trays to serve hot food to remote fire camps
there are fire pants and goggles
i asked kruger what else he needed
a little warmer temperature at night a little cooler temperature during the day and a little bit more rain
what they definitely do not need here is wind and the latest meteorological report is that the winds will die down today
that is good news because los alamos national lab is about six or seven miles from here
it is a pretty spread out area and there are different sites all around where the fire could affect them
right now it looks like the lab and the town of los alamos are going to be safe
of course firefighters are going to be very very careful making sure that none of this spreads and they are going to take advantage of the low winds today
reporting live from bandelier national monument back to you
bo any estimate as to when the fire may be contained or controlled
that really depends on who you ask out here
among the firefighters they say they plan to be here for a week and a half
some of the officials say they could be here as much as a week
i think it is very safe to say we're going to be right here this time next week
all right bo cooper reporting to us from near the los alamos national laboratory there
he is with c. n. n. affiliate k. o. a. t. and we will continue with more news on early edition just ahead
we ask you to stay with us
as we told you earlier the death toll in that shooting spree in port arthur australia now stands at thirty four
the suspect is in custody and police are now trying to sort out the details
john raedler joins us live now from hobart australia hobart tasmania rather with the latest
john
well bill the mass killings are over the siege is over the initial drama is over
this is how it finished
nearly twenty four hours of mayhem ended here in these smoldering remains of a guest house near port arthur
it was here that the alleged gunman's three hostages are believed to have met the same fate as more than thirty other people yesterday death by gunfire
after he carried out the last of his killing the suspect apparently set fire to the two story house eventually running from it with his clothes ablaze
waiting police arrested him he was rushed to hospital in hobart and admitted for treatment for minor burns
the man is being kept isolated from other patients and is under heavy police guard
as we conducting the inquiries we hope to explore it as soon as we can but i can't tell you exactly when and if any charges will be laid
police has not yet released the suspect's identity nor any reason for his horrific action
later monday police allowed news media into the historic site of port arthur revered relic of australia's convict past twenty four hours earlier its tranquility shattered by hundreds of staccato gun blasts
the first and the worst of the carnage happened here twenty people killed in this cafe just behind me another four people killed outside
elsewhere the gunman's car with a surfboard on top green blankets covering the blood of victims
a policeman recounts the especially tragic demise of a woman and her two little daughters
it's our understanding that the mother was carrying the three year old baby when they were both shot and the six year old ran away trying to escape and was shot in the process
more signs of the rampage shot up cars their drivers and passengers either dead or wounded and more blankets covering more blood
only now is the shock sinking in
we watched dunblane and lockerbie and places and the we stand by but when we're here it's this is our this is our dunblane
now that the drama is over the trauma has begun as tasmanians try to come to terms with what few of them could ever have imagined happening in their green and serene island underneath down under
and here on what is monday night in hobart in the hospital behind me the royal hobart hospital the suspect is being treated there for burns that he suffered during the fiery climax to this saga this morning
he is to be interviewed by police he is expected in the next twenty four thirty six or forty eight hours to be charged with the most counts of murder in australian legal history
john quickly here some of the survivors i know are also inside of that hospital
can you tell us what condition are they in at this time
we believe there are about twelve survivors still in the hospital four of those still said to be in serious condition
all right john raedler live from hobart australia thanks for that update
former los angeles police detective mark fuhrman will begin his deposition today in the upcoming civil suit against o. j. simpson
fuhrman now lives in idaho and he will be questioned in that state
c. n. n.'s charles feldman says though unlike the criminal trial fuhrman's profile in this case could be much lower
in most criminal trials it is the defendant who commands center stage but the o. j. simpson trial was not like most other cases
sharing the spotlight with simpson was former los angeles police department detective mark fuhrman or as he came to be known the man who found the glove
i looked down and i saw a dark object
i was probably still fifteen twenty feet away and i kept walking closer and then i saw when i was a few feet away that it was a glove
as he did in the preliminary hearing fuhrman repeated that testimony during the trial itself but by then simpson's lawyers had effectively turned the tables
fuhrman was cast as a racist rogue cop who was out to get simpson and may have simpson's lawyers strongly suggested even planted key evidence
to try and prove that fuhrman is a racist simpson's lawyers set a trap by asking fuhrman whether he used what was often referred to gingerly as the 'n word
although f. lee bailey did not mince words in his cross examination
and you say on your oath that you have not addressed any black person as a nigger or spoken about black people as niggers in the past ten years detective fuhrman
that is what i'm saying sir
and then came the bombshell
it was revealed that fuhrman had indeed used the so called 'n word several times during taped conversations with a would be screenwriter who was looking for color for a script she was working on about the police
that coupled with news that fuhrman was now under investigation himself for alleged acts of police misconduct he talked about on those tapes resulted in fuhrman taking the fifth amendment
detective fuhrman did you plant or manufacture any evidence in this case
i assert my fifth amendment privilege
the high profile role fuhrman played in the criminal trial experts say is not likely to be repeated in the forthcoming civil suit against simpson filed by families of nicole brown simpson and ron goldman
mainly they say that is because in the civil trial simpson himself will have to take the stand something he did not do during the criminal proceeding
and since the now retired detective is still under investigation in california any testimony he might be able to offer is bound to be severely limited
charles feldman c. n. n. los angeles
when an oil tanker hits the rocks the public and the t. v. cameras pay close attention
but some environmentalists say the biggest damage comes from the oil we spill every day one drop at a time
c. n. n. environmental unit reporter bruce burkhardt has more
seven years ago its soiled alaskan beaches and scenes of stricken wildlife became a symbol of environmental outrage but oil industry critics say that while big tanker accidents get the public's attention their total impact is a drop in the barrel compared to the oil that's spilled during normal business every day
so what people don't think about is what happens at an oil refinery
what happens when you ship oil around in a pipeline
those leak those break
what happens when oil is unloaded from a big tanker into a smaller barge
pipeline spills reported to the u. s. department of transportation average twelve million gallons of petroleum products a year more each year than the eleven million gallons spilled by the exxon valdez
the e. p. a. says over a quarter of the nation's one million underground gasoline and oil tanks leak
no one knows how much fuel is lost
and smaller oil barges are responsible for two of the three worst u. s. spills since the valdez including the grounding of the north cape barge off rhode island in january
the general accounting office says there's an average of sixteen thousand small oil spills in the waterways each year half of them during loading or unloading operations
the average in recent years says g. a. o. is forty six million gallons spilled per year about four times the valdez spill
legislation to tighten safety regulations on fuel barges and the boats that tow them is pending in congress
but if a mega spill like the exxon valdez inspires headlines it also inspires action
in this case the oil pollution act of nineteen ninety
in the six years since that law tightened safety and insurance standards for tankers there have been no valdez size disasters
the oil industry says its track record is consistently improving
the amount lost or spilled is only a small fraction of the six billion gallons of oil the u. s. consumes each year
blackwelder sees it as a multi billion dollar waste both in lost fuel and mounting cleanup expenses
we are still spilling and wasting oil
we're treating it casually we're not treating it as if it's a precious commodity
we're giving it away
with so much oil moving daily in tankers barges and pipelines he says the spills great and small are bound to continue
bruce burkhardt c. n. n. reporting
a twenty three year ban on alaskan petroleum exports has been lifted by president clinton
the restriction was imposed by congress when it first authorized the trans alaska pipeline
mr. clinton is putting a number of environmental protection requirements on the tanker that will carry the oil
british petroleum says its first export customer will be chinese petroleum of taiwan
an administration official says refineries on the west coast of the united states will continue to have full access to alaskan oil
and this note the lumberg survey estimates that gas prices are up on average about five cents a gallon nationwide although some reports have shown that in california prices at the pumps go up as high as two dollars plus
and the outcry against high gas prices in california has reached washington with house speaker newt gingrich calling for oil companies to give an accounting
other republicans also want to give drivers a break
c. n. n.'s senior washington correspondent charles bierbauer joins us live from capitol hill with the latest
good morning charles
good morning andrea
now this seems to be fueling a new tax debate in washington
well to paraphrase an old saying i guess two things inevitable in washington are gas and taxes and in this case it is gas taxes that are getting the attention of legislators here in town
you know as you indicated the average price of gasoline has increased quite significantly up a nickel from last week up fourteen cents from last year at this time so that according to one study the average cost of gasoline across the country all grades all pumps is now one dollar and thirty six cents a gallon and even much higher in a lot of places including here in washington
a variety of reasons some of them relating to regulations some of them relating to environmental controls some of them to the supply and the harshness of winter but all fuel for the political engines of course
in nineteen ninety three president clinton his administration raised the gas taxes federal gas taxes four point three percent and now we're hearing a republican call for a roll back on that
the debate as framed by speaker gingrich and white house chief of staff leon panetta
senator dole announced on friday that we will move to repeal the gas tax increase that president clinton got in nineteen ninety three and i think certainly anybody in california knows with what has been happening with the price of gasoline
when you learn that forty seven and one half cents a gallon of gasoline cost is state and local and federal taxes it's too much and we need to get some of the burden of government off
if in fact senator dole is serious about this we have offered to sit down with senator dole and try to negotiate a balanced budget approach that could include perhaps consideration of the tax code the gas tax repeal
but let's understand that a gas tax repeal would cost almost thirty billion dollars over the next seven years and i have not heard senator dole say how he would pay for that
and in this era of seeking balanced budgets as mr. panetta indicates anytime you cut back on one side you've got to cut back something else
you reduce your revenues you've got to reduce expenditures
broader tax cuts will be part of the debate as congress launches into the nineteen ninety seven budget
we'll be hearing more about that this week
the republicans of course still have their pledges to cut taxes
they want to cut capital gains tax they want to provide some kind of a middle class tax credit based largely on a per child credit
president clinton has got that in his budget proposal as well so we should be hearing a lot about taxes and not just gas taxes and this week goes on and as the budget debate continues here
another issue still very much active here on capitol hill this week will be the health care legislation particularly as it focuses on insurance
when we come back in a little bit we're going to be talking with a lobbyist very much opposed to some provisions for providing insurance for mental health care and we'll be back a little later in the hour
andrea
all right thank you
always something to tingle about huh charles
charles bierbauer reporting to us live from capitol hill thanks again
an out of control forest fire fueled by extremely dry and windy conditions has reached the edge of the los alamos nuclear weapons laboratory
joining us live from near los alamos new mexico is reporter bo cooper from c. n. n.'s albuquerque affiliate k. o. a. t. t. v.
and bo we spoke about an hour ago
have conditions changed since then
well it's gotten just a couple of degrees warmer
it got down to sixteen degrees here overnight and that of course caused some problems for the firefighters on the night crew
i'm here live at the base camp just south of bandelier national monument
so far the latest briefing shows eleven thousand five hundred acres have been charred by this fire
the winds are expected to die down and that's good
a lot of these firefighters here are coming back from their night shift and they say they prefer to fight this fire at night
that's because the humidity is a little bit lower
also the temperature is lower and their fatigue factor is lower as well
the fire tends to burn and behave a little bit differently when it is colder
it tends to hug the ground and the smoke isn't really that bad
we just got a wind report
they're expecting high pressure to kind of break down over the area
that's good news because they're very concerned about the wind
what that allows is a longer time for the fire to be under the canopy a longer residence time
it pre heats the canopy and we see this really intense torching very very quickly almost without notice
if you're on an active part of the fire this afternoon in the early afternoon be heads up for that stuff
now the winds are expected to blow the flames away from los alamos national lab
it is of course good news
you mentioned it's very dry
it's the driest it's been here in twenty years and we now know the origin of this fire was an abandoned camp fire
two men have turned themselves in
one was from taos new mexico the other from germany
they were here hiking last week when they apparently walked off and left a fire burning
that's certainly bad news
we typically have fires here in new mexico like this but never this early
it is very very dry and this might be a precursor for a very bad fire season
reporting live from bandelier national monument now back to you
bo quickly
you mentioned sixteen degrees just a short time ago
is that typical this time of year
no it's not not for this time this late in april
we had a cold front that moved through and that certainly cooled things off
three nights ago it was fifty degrees out here so the temperature drop has certainly been something these firefighters have really had to contend with
o. k. bo cooper from c. n. n. affiliate k. o. a. t. out of albuquerque new mexico
thanks bo
a career spy is missing
a search is underway for former c. i. a. director william colby
coast guard crews are looking in the wicomico river in maryland after neighbors found his capsized canoe
c. n. n.'s carl rochelle joins us now live from cobb island maryland
what's the latest carl
natalie we just heard from the officials who are conducting this operation the fire chief the department of natural resources and the sheriff of this county they say they have been unsuccessful so far in their efforts and they are now beginning to get ready to augment the divers by beginning dragging operations
and when they do that what they do is take stretch a line between two boats and on the line are hooks
and they drag these hooks along the bottom it's weighted so they go along the bottom and the idea is to hook anything in the path
that is the next level of effort that they are going to move into to try to determine the fate of william colby
the green colored canoe used by william colby sits on the grass in front of his waterfront home sparse evidence to the fate of the former c. i. a. director
it was found sunday night about four hundred yards downstream partially filled with water
there were no paddles and no life preservers
divers are searching the waters near here for his body
right now we are viewing it as an accident but i will not rule out foul play
you never rule that out till we finally locate the individual and get a autopsy done
but right now it is being considered as an accident a boating accident
neighbors became concerned when they noticed colby who was director of the c. i. a. from nineteen seventy three to seventy six had not left for washington sunday evening as he usually did
they went to his home found the radio and computer still on but no colby
they looked around
he wasn't around
they walked out to a pier where the canoe is kept that mr. colby adamant in canoeing
they saw the canoe
there's also a ladder which he uses to put down over the side of the pier to get into the canoe
the ladder was down the canoe was gone
divers are concentrating their search in the waters near the colby home but they say conditions are tough
it's a black water search
there's no visibility in any of the waters in charles county so it's all done by feel
colby had talked with his wife by phone on saturday
she was in texas
they say that he told her that he wasn't feeling well but planned to go canoeing anyway
authorities believe that he went out shortly after that meaning that he may have been missing for more than a day natalie before the alert was sounded
all right carl rochelle thanks
senior citizens get more than their fair share of junk mail and much of it can cost the older americans what little money they have to live on
c. n. n.'s ed garsten looks at a disturbing study underway in michigan
it's a scam filled satchel stuffed with letters of invitation to deception addressed to our nation's oldest citizens
we know that every day of the week the michigan senior citizens and others are taken advantage of by slick ads hard to ignore come ons and solicitations for money from organizations looking like charities when the only cause they have is fattening their own wallets
to prove the point the michigan attorney general's office and the american association of retired people asked one hundred six seniors to collect all the junk mail they received over a thirty day period
of the one thousand seven hundred sixty six solicitations received statewide almost one fifth were sweepstakes notices followed by requests for money by charities ads for merchandise and credit cards
michigan attorney general frank kelley says it's the sweepstakes that are the most onerous
he gave an example
it names you as a potential winner and to show you how bad this is it says the previous winner is patricia vine
there is a separate entire sweepstakes that say that the previous winner is patricia vine
so all they did was change the name at the top
elizabeth parker remembers calling on a piece of mail she got about winning a cruise
my husband says call the eight hundred number well that won't cost you anything so i called them
and i say i noticed that in your cruise you said it was seven days and la la la
you didn't say anything about how do i get there and what about the hotel
you didn't say anything about that
well that would be on you i said well that's not what your letter said then he got very perturbed with me and says well you called me i didn't call you
in fact the study contends that mail scams are costing seniors forty billion dollars a year nationwide
the u. s. postal service says while it has not done a scientific study anecdotal evidence nationwide would support the findings in michigan that senior citizens are targets of choice
elizabeth parker can attest to that
if the mailman missed my house he's sick
ed garsten c. n. n. detroit
we're all paying more at the gas pump for our automobile fuel
the republican challenger for the white house is suggesting a reduction in the gas tax
president clinton is suggesting something else
c. n. n. white house correspondent jill dougherty is with the president in coral gables florida
what's happening down there jill
well just a few minutes ago we have an announcement a paper announcement from the president about two steps that he is going to be taking in connection with the rise in gas prices
but first he says he is asking the secretary of energy hazel o'leary to immediately begin the process of what he calls orderly sales' of approximately twelve million barrels of our nation's strategic petroleum reserves
this step was authorized he says in the statement by congress last week as part of the omnibus appropriations bill
and second he is asking the secretary of energy to review market circumstances and report back to him within forty five days about the factors that led to the run up in prices
as part of that analysis the president is asking the secretary of energy to evaluate the expected market prices for the remainder of the peak summer driving season
the president in his statement says i believe those are the appropriate steps to take at this time
my administration will continue to monitor developments in the market in the coming weeks so as you mentioned there has been heightened concern not only among consumers but among members of congress who have been asking for some type of action to be taken on this and it also has become a political football as you mentioned with senator dole and others republicans calling for a cut in the gas tax
now we have what president clinton wants to do
has this been in the works for awhile jill or is this a way for the administration to trump what the republicans are proposing
this seems to be pretty recent although the first step the president does say the selling the barrels of the nation's strategic petroleum preserves was actually authorized last week
but taking this step is a new one
all right jill dougherty with the president in coral gables florida
live a moderate life and avoid radiation it is logical advice for anyone
but doctors talking about strategies of avoiding breast cancer say it is especially valuable advice for women
doctors being doctors they have managed to disagree on something
c. n. n. medical correspondent dan rutz has our report
no one catches breast cancer like they might catch a cold but more women are getting it and at younger ages
researchers are trying to find out why
and my aunt i've had my last seven aunts to die from breast cancer
women can learn to examine their breasts for lumps
they are urged to have the doctor check them each year as well
and there's mammography the x. ray exam that can reveal breast cancers that are too small to feel
detecting cancer early may improve the chances of beating it but what about preventing the disease in the first place
i think we understand enough to use the word cause in the way we use it in popular in popular language
at the m. d. anderson breast disease conference in houston texas dr. richard leff admits it's hard to pin down the cause of individual breast cancer cases
but it's becoming much easier to see trends those things that appear to increase or decrease the chances of developing the disease
age at full first term pregnancy or choosing not to have a child those are very significant and powerful predictors of whether women will develop breast cancer when you look things in a for a full population
changes in the breast especially during late pregnancy appear to help protect the cells that are most likely to become cancerous years later especially for young women
teenage mothers may cut in half their risk of having breast cancer later in life
one as social policy doesn't want to encourage women to have children in their teens
breast feeding also appears to be protective and it may be possible to develop what amounts to a pseudo pregnancy
researchers are working on ways to duplicate the protection early child bearing brings to breast cells
but for women facing the risk now love endorses the advice doctors like richard leff offers his patients in atlanta less alcohol more vegetables and plenty of exercise
i think you characterize them as having a little bit of effectiveness and improving the chance a little bit of them not getting cancer in general and breast cancer specifically
this women is part of a tomoxifin study to see if that drug helps prevent hereditary breast cancer
but love doubts that strong drugs like tomoxifin will be useful to most women because of possibly harmful side effects
the number one risk factor for breast cancer is being a woman
but that risk varies widely depending on where in the world you live
so researchers are taking a global view
they say the keys to prevention may be hidden in the rich diversity of lifestyles
dan rutz c. n. n. houston
there's new evidence if you eat less you might live longer
and c. n. n.'s eugenia halsey explains just how much you have to lose in order to gain those extra years
the search for the fountain of youth does it lie in a cream
a pill
a magic potion
these monkeys studied for almost a decade now may provide some clues
when researchers at the national institute on aging gave them less to eat thirty percent fewer calories than normal they were healthier than monkeys on a non restricted diet
they were more active and appeared less likely to develop age associated diseases
the same could turn out to be true for people
and deep caloric restriction might have some beneficial effects on humans certainly at preventing or delaying some of the diseases of aging and possibly affecting the aging process itself
how might cutting calories slow down aging
well when these monkeys were given less to eat their metabolism slowed resulting in a lower body temperature
scientists theorize a lower body temperature may have a beneficial effect on cells resulting in less d. n. a. damage in development of tumors
the organism seems to shift from a growth and reproduction strategy to a survival strategy so that protective mechanisms work better the ability to resist stresses better
sixty years of research on mice and rats have shown similar effects on life span when calories were cut
and a recent study of women who stayed lean showed they had a lower risk of disease
some health experts say these studies may help erase the misconception that it is o. k. to put on pounds as you get older but they question the practical effects
i can't imagine how many people could cut a third of their calories for long periods of time
instead says dr. roth it might be possible one day to develop a drug that would achieve the same goal
if we could target that traumatologically then you could still eat enjoy all the junk food that you want take the magic pill and get the beneficial and anti aging effects
until then the secret to a long life may remain elusive
eugenia halsey c. n. n. baltimore
well one wedding ritual dates back to the last century when slavery was legal in america
it is called jumping the broom
and as c. n. n.'s mary ann mcrae reports the ritual's modern day popularity is creating some controversy
monica and samuel hendricks jumped the broom at the afrocentric wedding
so did roxanne and gregory singer at their wore traditional one both couples seeking to honor their ancestors and remember the past
this is one of those moments where our ancestors discovered something very beautiful out of something very dark
harriette cole who has wedding planners entitled jumping the broom says the ritual was used by african american slaves stripped of their legal right to marry
she too jumped the broom at her wedding
we felt as if we were way high in the air for a very long time and many people said to us that they felt that as well
in that moment i saw my grandmother's face
then in the eyes of jesus jump over the broom into the land of matrimony
but it wasn't until alex haley's best selling novel roots and its televised version in nineteen seventy seven that jumping the broom began slowly finding its way into modern marriages
even though we now have a piece of paper that says you are man and wife your heritage and your people they jumped a broom and that made them man and wife
and i think that is more significant than the paper
we came a long way from slavery and it shouldn't be just thrown away thrown out the window
this is something that our ancestors did and we should do it also
not everyone agrees
dr. maulana karenga says jumping the broom has no historical or cultural validity
if it did exist at all he says it was created by slave owners
how can a broom a kitchen item connect you to your heritage
dr. karenga says the ritual demeans african history and culture
we built the first major civilization in the world in valley and taught the world truth goodness beauty the fundamental disciplines of human knowledge
how are jumping over a broom
if you see that there's beauty in the path that our ancestors paved for us then there's nothing wrong with incorporating it into your wedding
many couples apparently do see the beauty
wedding broom sales are up and more african americans are choosing an ages old ritual to symbolize the sacredness of their new home
mary ann mcrae c. n. n. new york
aging often comes with its own set of aches pains diseases and ailments but like the song says tain't necessarily so
that's good news
the world health conference on healthy aging is under way in new york now
joining us jeffrey blumberg who is associate director senior scientist and a chief of the anti oxidant research laboratory at tufts university also alexandre kalach chief of aging and health for the world health conference
mr. blumberg what is for instance what first of all is world health conference on healthy aging and how does your work on anti aging oxidants fit into all of that
well the united nations and the world health organization are getting ready for nineteen ninety nine which is going to be the year of the older adult and we're looking for ways to promote healthy aging
and one of the things we recognize is that diet and nutrition are a very part of prolonging the health span and allowing older people to lead independent and productive lives
we've known that for a long time though have we not
oh but our knowledge is increasing dramatically
we really have new scientific evidence about the kinds of diets that are most healthful and we're even beginning to recognize which ingredients within the diet we need to encourage increased consumption of in order to prolong the health span and delay the risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and cancer osteoporosis and cataracts
this is very important new information and the united nations and the world health organization are looking for ways now to translate the scientific information into new public health policies
and mr. kalach outside of eating habits what else are important factors than older folks need to know about healthy aging
the first thing that is most important is really to continue to be actively involved and socially integrated into society active life meaning both physical and mental
and for me as head of the world health organization program on aging and health it's very important to keep in perspective that we're talking about one thousand two hundred million elderly people by the year two thousand twenty
so diet yes supplements yes if you can afford them
if not the most important thing is to continue to make progress towards a healthy balanced diet which means a good amount of fresh fruits vegetables moderate alcohol consumption low salt intake low fat intake and these other things that really will mean that in the future as we approach the next century the century of aging
and let me ask you how do you influence societies to help encourage older people to live the way they should then
how do the society there are many different ways
one of them is most important is working with the media raising awareness bringing the advocacy making sure that all people governments the different agents will understand that aging is a societal issue
we all have to work together if we really want to reach the next century in a better way for the elderly which includes us
we are talking about the future cohorts us the future elderly people
and mr. blumberg we can't take the time to cover it all but we're very interested in your work on what's being called toxic oxygen and this oxidative stress that is now chipping away at us as we age
can you give us a thumbnail sketch of what that's all about
well one of the things that we're learning is that an important part of the aging process itself is our very dangerous friend oxygen
while we need it to live its byproducts called oxygen free radicals are very toxic and may in fact be the basis for heart disease cancer and some of the other chronic diseases we see common among older people like cataracts and macular degeneration
and to the extend this really is true then we seem to have some evidence from a variety of clinical trials and epidemiological observations that increasing our intake of dietary anti oxidants like vitamins c. and e. and the carotenoid including beta carotene seem to be associated with a reduced risk for these diseases
so we can now start to make dietary recommendations about how to our anti oxidant intake in order promote health and reduce the risk of these terrible chronic diseases among older people
are you familiar with melatonin that is being advertised now some say by snake oil salesmen others say melatonin is the miracle drug that not only can stop aging but it can actually reverse it
do you know anything about it
can you shed any clinical light on that
well melatonin is really a hormone
it's not a nutrient
and i think there is research demonstrating that it may have some benefits as a sedative
and while it's been touted as an anti aging hormone i think the scientific evidence is very far from complete about any efficacy it may have
and indeed when looking at the potential benefits of compounds like melatonin i think we also have to worry about the potential risks that long term use of it would bring
to mr. kalach we talk about the importance of eating well as you age and staying integrated into society but overall how are people doing with that
well that is the important thing that we have to bear in mind here
good information is essential for people to keep a good diet
now who the world health organization is not yet endorsing that we should supplement our diet one way or the other but we are definitely saying eat more fresh vegetables eat more fresh fruits consume less fat consume less salt and the chances are that these chronic diseases that you were talking before will decline and your risk of having them will definitely be much lower
and what are your thoughts on the year of the elderly coming up in nineteen ninety nine
what the importance of that what the significance what you hope to see
the first important thing is that old age is an opportunity to celebrate
as we go to the next century it is very fortunate that the united nations has decided to call nineteen ninety nine as the international year for older persons
it is the farewell to this century and the next century will be dominated by aging
we'll have different activities different ways to celebrate and this conference that we are co organizing here in new york is the major first opportunity for us to address what is to come a celebration for nineteen ninety nine
either of you can take this one
the significance now we know that in the united states we have what we call a baby boom generation aging at the rate of about one every ninety seconds becoming age fifty
but this is a worldwide phenomenon and what is the significance of an aging world
especially a healthy aging world
it's tremendous the significance because by the year two thousand twenty we will have over one thousand two hundred million elderly people in the world
we are talking about substantial numbers
in china alone we will have two hundred eighty four million elderly people by the year two thousand twenty which is about the size of the population today of the united states
that is what we have to address
how we are going to make sure that these future generations of elderly people and we are all here we are talking about the adults of today how can we make sure that these people will age well and the very important message is to keep active to keep with a well balanced natural diet to keep socially integrated and these are the messages that we want to convey and share with the population that is going to grow older
if we don't do that then the price can be immense because it puts a strain on both the health and the social sector
and mr. blumberg your thoughts on that
i think he's absolutely right and it's the strong message i think we need to get across
the way we're going to approach dealing with this enormous demographic imperative is by prevention by preventing the chronic diseases and preventing the disability and the frailty associated with old age
and we know we can do that
we know we can do that by increasing physical activity and improving nutrition
and we're not going to be able to solve the problems associated with this massive number of older people by better ways to treat these diseases
we've got to prevent them and now is the time to begin
thank you both for being with us and good luck on your work jeffrey blumberg and alexandre kalach
republicans acknowledge they will examine the president's whitewater testimony for political ammunition
mr. clinton spent three and a half hours giving his videotape deposition yesterday
bob franken is on the whitewater beat
bob what do you hear about the president's sunday at home at the white house
how'd it go
just a standard sunday at home
he went out jogging he went to church he spent three and a half hours being questioned by lawyers
by all accounts it went very very well for the president
defense attorneys unanimously are ecstatic they think that he's going to help their case in the whitewater trial
the independent counsel kenneth starr did not show up
should that have been expected
as a matter of fact there is quite a bit of criticism about his not being there today
this is after all semi historical having the president of the united states interrogated by this
he was in town he didn't go
many people believe it is because he's so controversial he didn't show up
bob lets talk about the issue of fingerprints
newsweek magazine as you know is quoting a source as saying f. b. i. experts found hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints on those mysterious billing records that showed up mysteriously one day at the white house
i guess the basic question is so what
well that seems to be the question
the white house is getting bolder now and pointing out that of course her fingerprints would have showed up
they were billing records her billing records fingerprints we hear from the scientists can last twenty years so the white house is asking the same question you just did so what
all right bob thanks very much
president clinton is hardly the first chief executive to try to step up the fight against illegal drugs with an emphasis on young people
it's seemingly a popular idea especially in florida a front line in the drug fight and in the presidential campaign
still mr. clinton's florida trip was by no means criticism free
let's check in now with jill dougherty
she's in coral gables
jill
judy crime is a red hot issue this election year and right now both democrats and republicans are playing a game of political one upsmanship trying to show who's doing more to fight it
today president clinton narrowed his target to fighting drugs
in the crucial electoral state of florida president clinton used the backdrop of a miami area middle school to announce a new drug control strategy aimed primarily at young people
the most perplexing problem that we face in this area is this while the drug rate has gone down drug usage among people under eighteen has gone up
while the crime rate has gone down random violence among people under eighteen has gone up
the children who are here today are the battleground of today and tomorrow
but the president hardly had a chance to shake some hands before florida republicans greeted him with an ad in the miami herald purportedly offering a federal judgeship for sale ridiculing clinton nominee for u. s. appeals court charles bud stack a florida lawyer and democratic activist
the g. o. p. claims his sole qualification is his fundraising ability
the white house insists stack is qualified and it's firing back citing a washington post article in which senator dole's criticism of another clinton appointed judge apparently backfired
the judge was trying to keep a chronic sex offender in prison
meanwhile back in washington republicans dismissed the president's new drug control policy
for three years where has this leadership been
it's been actually vacant
it's been silent
it hasn't existed
it's surrendered
and now we have an election and i think a pollster informed the president hey this is an important issue and drug use is up amongst teenagers and so finally this speech
but there's one consolation for the president
florida once looked like a lost cause for the clinton campaign now he's making inroads into republican leads
and on this trip he's touching all the bases here in florida meeting with the families of cuban americans who were shot down last month near cuba as well as a look at environmentalists
and as an insurance policy he's raising three million dollars for democratic coffers
judy
all right jill dougherty thanks in florida travelling with the president
although bob dole's strategy in his battle to trade up his address on pennsylvania avenue is viewed by some as uncertain one part of it seems solid
the senate majority leader is stressing his differences with president clinton
bruce morton has the latest on that dole effort
bob dole in another of a series of speeches designed to contrast his views with president clinton's today called for the abolition of public housing which should be replaced he said by vouchers so poor people could choose where to live
public housing is one of the last bastions of socialism in the world
imagine the united states government owns the housing where an entire class of citizens permanently live
we are the landlords of misery
let me be clear
i believe the government has an obligation to maintain a safety net but these programs have failed in that mission
they have not alleviated poverty
they have not in fact they've deepened it rather than alleviated it
housing vouchers in my view would enable poor americans to choose where they'd like to live just like we do
in response housing secretary henry cisneros issued a statement saying the administration wanted vouchers too
i don't know where senator dole was he said while members of his own party gutted the administration's voucher proposal and were undermining what he called for today
the rest of dole's day reflected his double job these days senate leader and presidential candidate
he met with israeli prime minister shimon peres something a candidate or a senate leader might do and on the senate floor attacked the administration over the trade deficit with japan and crime
but it's in these issue speeches that dole seems to want to highlight his differences with the president
today's on housing was the second the first step was crime and permissive judges
more are on the way
bruce morton c. n. n. washington
speculation ross perot might run for president again this year has been fueled by perot's creation of a new political party as well by hints dropped by perot himself
earlier today i talked with pollster gordon black who did surveys for perot in nineteen ninety two
he has a new poll on third party enthusiasm
i began by asking black how big is the market for a third party
well our estimate of the minimum size of the people would be really willing to defect from the two party system is roughly about twenty two percent of the voters right now and that's remained constant for the last two years
if you put it in perspective and subtract some of those people out of the republican and democratic parties the democrats and the republicans would be larger but both of them in fact would still be in the twenty percentile bracket
at its simplest level why are people telling you there's a need for a third party
i think the simplest level is that the voter has become successively alienated over the past thirty years
the harris alienation index indicates that roughly two of every three voters are alienated
the primary one of the primary reasons is the sense of disempowerment from the two political parties
the two political parties appear to have gone out to the extremes the republicans out on the right and the democrats out on the left and it's left the bulk of the voters which most americans are the moderates without a political party today
for large numbers of americans the term third party has been synonymous for quite a while with ross perot
now what's happened to that number
has it grown or has it gotten smaller
well ross perot's vote since the first of the year has dropped from what was right around the twenty mark down to about the fifteen mark
it depends on which survey you do the low is fourteen percent the high is about eighteen percent
the actual percentage of people who would jump ship to a third party is about twenty two percent but the people who say they would consider perot is at about twenty six percent
so right now perot is actually weaker in some respects that the third party movement itself
and how about this debate over exactly which candidate bob dole or bill clinton would be most affected negatively by a third party candidacy
where do you fall on that
what are your numbers telling you
well right now our numbers say that by about a fifteen point margin the voters who are currently voting for perot would support clinton over dole
so effectively perot is pulling votes from clinton at a higher rate than from dole
however when we look at it in terms of the people in both political parties who would like to defect it turns out it's absolutely equal from both political parties the rate of defection
so what's happened in the past over the past two or three months is perot's gotten weaker among college educated people
that means that those are republicans on the whole going back to dole and it looks like he now helps dole over clinton in effect because he's pulling fewer from dole than from clinton
mr. black if there has been stability in the column of numbers of people who feel a third party is required are we at all close to the critical mass it would take to elect a third party candidate as president
well i think we are but i think that that's there's a chicken and egg question in all of this
you know you can have a group of people out there that are willing to vote for a third party candidate
in fact in one of our questions it's sixty one percent say they're willing to vote for the candidate of a third party if in fact that candidate would represent their point of view over the two political parties
but you have to have an entity out there
you have to have people who are willing to run for office and have the resources to communicate and that's not in place yet
that's what really perot's been trying to create for the last year and is going to continue apparently on
and until that's in place you don't really have something to offer the voters
but it's clearly the case that there is a market that eventually either this year or next year could elect somebody to a significant office
what would it take for either of the major parties to co opt this third party momentum
well part of the problem is the inability of the two parties to go back to the center
if you look at the republican party the republican party is largely captive because everyone knows that the christian coalition the social right the national rifle association organizations that are committed to very conservative social positions and it's candidates find it very difficult to try to move back to the center
the same thing is true of the democratic party
it's got its urban black coalition
it has the welfare coalition the public employee unions who pull it to the left
mr. black your numbers make for fascinating reading
thanks very much
thank you very much
it's hard to believe but it has just been sixty nine days since new hampshire's first in the nation primary made it the center of the campaign ninety six universe
what is the political mood in the granite state now
we sent our marc watts to investigate
april in new hampshire the snow has melted and given new life to the rivers and it's a new season in more ways than one
winter is gone and the political season is a fading memory
the town of milford the night before the february election
just a memory lingers today in the town square and in the hamlet known as center barnstead the rumble in the lumberyard just a memory now too
some people miss it
oh yeah absolutely
it puts us on the map
i mean otherwise people forget about us that we're here
do not wait for orders from headquarters mount up everybody and ride in the saddle for the guns
the man who sounded that battle cry rode out of new hampshire a big winner
but pat buchanan was eventually toppled by bob dole
the senate majority leader racked up enough delegates by the end of march to capture the g. o. p. nomination but with that battle over the nominating process has been under constant attack a compressed primary season that critics say failed because many voters did not get to play a part
the republican national committee has set up a task force and secretaries of state from around the country like new hampshire's bill gardner will convene next month in washington to discuss the process
we may come up with a recommendation that is a consensus recommendation
and if we do then we're going to provide that to the party
new hampshire's first in the nation primary status will certainly be discussed and people here will fight to keep their title
this is a good state to start off in because it is a willing receptive active energized constituency of voters
sit down with voters in blake's restaurant in manchester a candidate's stop for a new campaign and you find out people are still talking politics
clinton has got my vote
i believe that he has done a good job
i don't think he's going to do what he says and i think we need a change
as for dole many here like his experience and character but people still have questions
some think he is short on message
dole here needed to convince voters that his experience and his tested leadership was going to be directed at something that he articulated
and i think the skepticism about dole in this state has always been that
but there is plenty of time to change perception
voters here are largely concerned about economic issues and they can't be taken for granted
as they proved two months ago in the primary they have plenty of ability to surprise
marc watts c. n. n. bedford new hampshire
digging for dirt is it a matter of definition
we told you last week about a memo in which the house republican leadership asked committee chairmen to search official files for information about the clinton administration specifically examples of waste and fraud dishonesty or labor union corruption
house speaker newt gingrich insists that's a legitimate search for data not dirt
we're faced with stonewalling by the clinton administration in area after area
i have asked and work with the senate and house republicans to coordinate and find out how many different places they are refusing to release documents
we have subpoenas for example which have been sent down the house oversight or the house reform committee which have been ignored
we've had stonewalling by department after department which have refused to turn over documents
we have allegations of very serious scandals and very serious coverups and i want i have asked that we pull together all the different examples of where they are refusing to cooperate
republicans acknowledge they will examine the president's whitewater testimony for political ammunition
mr. clinton spent three and a half hours giving his videotape deposition yesterday
bob franken is on the whitewater beat
bob what do you hear about the president's sunday at home at the white house
how'd it go
just a standard sunday at home
he went out jogging he went to church he spent three and a half hours being questioned by lawyers
by all accounts it went very very well for the president
defense attorneys unanimously are ecstatic they think that he's going to help their case in the whitewater trial
the independent counsel kenneth starr did not show up
should that have been expected
as a matter of fact there is quite a bit of criticism about his not being there today
this is after all semi historical having the president of the united states interrogated by this
he was in town he didn't go
many people believe it is because he's so controversial he didn't show up
bob lets talk about the issue of fingerprints
newsweek magazine as you know is quoting a source as saying f. b. i. experts found hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints on those mysterious billing records that showed up mysteriously one day at the white house
i guess the basic question is so what
well that seems to be the question
the white house is getting bolder now and pointing out that of course her fingerprints would have showed up
they were billing records her billing records fingerprints we hear from the scientists can last twenty years so the white house is asking the same question you just did so what
all right bob thanks very much
the gas tax is the latest issue bob dole is using to fire away at the man he wants to replace at sixteen hundred pennsylvania avenue
bruce morton has a look at dole's we have big differences' strategy
bob dole in another of a series of speeches designed to contrast his views with president clinton's today called for the abolition of public housing which should be replaced he said by vouchers so poor people could choose where to live
public housing is one of the last bastions of socialism in the world
imagine the united states government owns the housing where an entire class of citizens permanently live
we are the landlords of misery
let me be clear
i believe the government has an obligation to maintain a safety net but these programs have failed in that mission
they have not alleviated poverty
they have not in fact they've deepened it rather than alleviated it
housing vouchers in my view would enable poor americans to choose where they'd like to live just like we do
housing secretary henry cisneros issued a statement responded for the administration
i think this is sort of shoot from the hip speech making in a bombastic political year but not a way to make housing policy that really works for people or that is consistent with the facts of what has transpired
the rest of dole's day reflected his double job these days senate leader and presidential candidate
he met with israeli prime minister shimon peres something a candidate or a senate leader might do met with the leading jewish lobbying organization and on the senate floor attacked the administration over the trade deficit with japan and crime
but it's in these issue speeches that dole seems to want to highlight his differences with the president
today's on housing was the second the first step was crime and permissive judges
more are on the way
bruce morton c. n. n. washington
under some political fire for not doing enough to fight the war on drugs president clinton is offering a new battle plan
mr. clinton is asking congress for nearly ten percent more money to carry it out
the president's call is for a bi partisan effort but then this is an election year
jill dougherty is traveling with the president and she is in coral gables florida
jill
correspondent gene president clinton came here to miami today to announce his new drug control strategy but it was also a political trick
and just a few minutes ago at a d. n. c. fundraiser he kept up the drum beat he's been tapping out all week long for republicans to join him in working out a balanced budget
the question is will we
the answer is depends upon whether the majority in congress decides to play politics a long time before the november election or will go back and work with me in good faith to pass the right sort of balanced budget plan for america
that's what we ought to do
there's plenty of time for the elections after the conventions this summer
let's go back to work and give the american people the balanced budget plan they deserve
but his main message here in florida was fighting drugs a subject that's also become very much a political issue
returning to the crucial electoral state of florida president clinton used the backdrop of a miami area middle school to announce a new drug control strategy aimed primarily at young people
the most perplexing problem that we face in this area is this while the drug rate has gone down drug usage among people under eighteen has gone up
while the crime rate has gone down random violence among people under eighteen has gone up
the children who are here today are the battleground of today and tomorrow
but the president hardly had a chance to shake some hands before florida republicans greeted him with an ad in the miami herald purportedly offering a federal judgeship for sale ridiculing clinton nominee for u. s. appeals court charles bud stack a florida lawyer and democratic activist
the g. o. p. claims his sole qualification is his fundraising ability
the white house insists stack is qualified and it's firing back citing a washington post article in which senator dole's criticism of another clinton appointed judge apparently backfired
the judge was trying to keep a chronic sex offender in prison
meanwhile back in washington republicans dismissed the president's new drug control policy
for three years where has his leadership been
it's been actually vacant
it's been silent it hasn't existed it's surrendered
and now we have an election and i think a pollster informed the president hey this is an important issue and drug use is up amongst teenagers and so finally we have this speech
but there's one consolation for the president
florida once looked like a lost cause for the clinton campaign now he's making inroads into republican leads
the president's nominee for the u. s. appeals court bud stack did not sow up for tonight's fundraiser but it was a success anyway
at this fundraiser and at another private reception that will be beginning shortly he expects to fill democratic coffers with a total of three million dollars
gene
thank you jill
speculation ross perot might run for president again this year has been fueled by perot's creation of a new political party as well by hints dropped by perot himself
earlier today i talked with pollster gordon black who did surveys for perot in nineteen ninety two
he has a new poll on third party enthusiasm
i began by asking black how big is the market for a third party
well our estimate of the minimum size of the people would be really willing to defect from the two party system is roughly about twenty two percent of the voters right now and that's remained constant for the last two years
if you put it in perspective and subtract some of those people out of the republican and democratic parties the democrats and the republicans would be larger but both of them in fact would still be in the twenty percentile bracket
at its simplest level why are people telling you there's a need for a third party
i think the simplest level is that the voter has become successively alienated over the past thirty years
the harris alienation index indicates that roughly two of every three voters are alienated
the primary one of the primary reasons is the sense of disempowerment from the two political parties
the two political parties appear to have gone out to the extremes the republicans out on the right and the democrats out on the left and it's left the bulk of the voters which most americans are the moderates without a political party today
for large numbers of americans the term third party has been synonymous for quite a while with ross perot
now what's happened to that number
has it grown or has it gotten smaller
well ross perot's vote since the first of the year has dropped from what was right around the twenty mark down to about the fifteen mark
it depends on which survey you do the low is fourteen percent the high is about eighteen percent
the actual percentage of people who would jump ship to a third party is about twenty two percent but the people who say they would consider perot is at about twenty six percent
so right now perot is actually weaker in some respects that the third party movement itself
and how about this debate over exactly which candidate bob dole or bill clinton would be most affected negatively by a third party candidacy
where do you fall on that
what are your numbers telling you
well right now our numbers say that by about a fifteen point margin the voters who are currently voting for perot would support clinton over dole
so effectively perot is pulling votes from clinton at a higher rate than from dole
however when we look at it in terms of the people in both political parties who would like to defect it turns out it's absolutely equal from both political parties the rate of defection
so what's happened in the past over the past two or three months is perot's gotten weaker among college educated people
that means that those are republicans on the whole going back to dole and it looks like he now helps dole over clinton in effect because he's pulling fewer from dole than from clinton
mr. black if there has been stability in the column of numbers of people who feel a third party is required are we at all close to the critical mass it would take to elect a third party candidate as president
well i think we are but i think that that's there's a chicken and egg question in all of this
you know you can have a group of people out there that are willing to vote for a third party candidate
in fact in one of our questions it's sixty one percent say they're willing to vote for the candidate of a third party if in fact that candidate would represent their point of view over the two political parties
but you have to have an entity out there
you have to have people who are willing to run for office and have the resources to communicate and that's not in place yet
that's what really perot's been trying to create for the last year and is going to continue apparently on
and until that's in place you don't really have something to offer the voters
but it's clearly the case that there is a market that eventually either this year or next year could elect somebody to a significant office
what would it take for either of the major parties to co opt this third party momentum
well part of the problem is the inability of the two parties to go back to the center
if you look at the republican party the republican party is largely a captive because everyone knows of the christian coalition the social right the national rifle association organizations that are committed to very conservative social positions and its candidates find it very difficult to try to move back to the center
the same thing is true of the democratic party
it's got its urban black coalition
it has the welfare coalition the public employee unions who pull it to the left
mr. black your numbers make for fascinating reading
thanks very much
thank you very much
it was just over two months ago that all political eyes were turned on new hampshire
now there are rumblings the granite state may be toppled from its first in the nation primary perch
here is national political correspondent marc watts
april in new hampshire
the snow has melted and given new life to the rivers and it's a new season on more ways than one
winter is gone and the political season is a fading memory the town of milford the night before the february election
just a memory lingers today in the town square
and in the hamlet known as center barnstead the rumble in the lumber yard just a memory now too
some people miss it
oh yeah absolutely
it puts us on the map
i mean otherwise people forget about us that we're here
do not wait for orders from headquarters
mount up everybody and ride to the sound of the guns
the man who sounded that battle cry rode out of new hampshire a big winner but pat buchanan was eventually toppled by bob dole
the senate majority leader racked up enough delegates by the end of march to capture the g. o. p. nomination but with that battle over the nominating process has been under constant attack a compressed primary season that critics say failed because many voters did not get to play a part
the republican national committee has set up a task force and secretaries of state from around the country like new hampshire's bill gardner will convene next month in washington to discuss the process
we may come up with a recommendation that is a consensus recommendation and if they do then we're going to provide that to the party
new hampshire's first in the nation primary status will certainly be discussed and people here will fight to keep their title
so this is a good state to start off in because it is a willing receptive active energized constituency of voters
sit down with voters at blake's restaurant in manchester a candidate's stop during the campaign and you find out people are still talking politics
well clinton has got my vote
i believe that he has done a good job
i don't think he's going to do what he says and i think we need a change
as for dole many here like his experience and character but people still have questions
some think he is short on message
dole here needed to convince voters that his experience and his tested leadership was going to be directed at something that he articulated and i think the skepticism about dole in this state has always been that
but there is plenty of time to change perceptions
voters here are largely concerned about economic issues and they can't be taken for granted
as they proved two months ago in the primary they have plenty of ability to surprise
marc watts c. n. n. bedford new hampshire
ted turner and brian roberts
tonight cable on the cutting edge
join tom brokaw and ted turner from cable televisions biggest show
it's all ahead on larry king live
now live from los angeles here is larry king
good evening from the national cable television association convention in los angeles california
welcome to this special edition of larry king live
we have an outstanding group of guests
we will start with ted turner the president and chairman of the board of turner broadcasting
mr. turner will be the incoming chairman of the national cable television association
we're joined also by brian roberts president of comcast corporation and he is the outgoing chairman of the national cable television association
is it that older people replace you
is that the way it works brian
i guess so
all right
why isn't it strange having someone from the industry in programming become chairman
well it's the first time it's ever happened larry
when when i first got into the industry there were hardly any programmers and they weren't even allowed to be members of the association
it was kind of like integration in the south
we had to work our way in after a long period of years
and sometimes people in your position who have reached the heights you've reached don't want to be chairman because it is too much extra work and you've got too many things on your mind
it's not that much extra work
we've got a good paid staff of ninety people in washington and they do most of the work
it's kind of an honorary thing
oh you don't have to work hard
well you have to do work what ten or fifteen days a year that year
tops that should be it
turner for you it's an easier job than it was for me
oh ho ho
but it's mainly just an honorary thing
you know we we have a paid president that does a great job and
decker henstra
decker right
and every year they take somebody from the industry and make them like honorary chairman
is it basically lobbying brian
well obviously the goal of n. c. t. a. is to try to not only put on this convention which has twenty six thousand people and all sorts of technologies and programmers but also to tell our story all across the country and primarily in washington
and this year we got the telecommunications law passed and cable had a little part to play in making sure we were allowed to become a telephone company and a computer company
so they do a great job
the vice president addressed them today was his speech received favorably
absolutely
he was he was very funny for part of his speech and then he was very serious and imparted a great deal of wisdom to us
would you say this administration is supportive of the cable industry
i'd say they are supportive of deregulation of the telecommunication industry trying to encourage more competition with cable t. v. eand in computer and and also telephone
so
is there areas where they are not supportive brian
well this particular year worked out great because it was bipartisan and you know there's been a lot of politics this year with the election of course and we were lucky
this is just such a vital part of the u. s. economy that we got a total communications bill as ted is saying with deregulation and
so you'd say you would give him a plus
i would give him a plus
when you started in this so many years ago did you ever envision something like this twenty six thousand people eight hundred networks
ted turner larry it was so long ago that to try to remember
let's go back
it's hard to remember exactly
i envisioned that it was going to get bigger but i don't guess i really thought it would get this big
did you ever think it would get this big
well my father was one of the first cable operators to carry one of ted's channels and i don't think anybody envisioned it could be this exciting
and now we're into new frontiers with the computers and telephones and more channels and international
it's it's fabulous a fun business
how about the competition
there's a lot of them
you know i think there's over one hundred channels out there and that's a lot
but you know we're kind of the ones that started it so you know what you sew the wind you reap the whirlwind
but it's it's pretty it's exciting there are a lot of choices for people
actually it's kind of the more the merrier isn't it
why not
well we're going to we're making more channels too
but we used to have there used to be one pay channel home box office and one basic channel t. b. s. there were only two two channels on the satellite
and now there are one hundred so when we used to we used to have one hundred percent share of the of the viewing to basic cable with t. b. s. and and and now we're sharing it with one hundred channels but we got about eight or nine of them
let's ask about some individual things
what's what's with comcast
you buy the spectrum you buy the seventy sixers you buy the flyers why
well we see really a page out of ted's book which is that local sports is probably the most important programming that you can't really duplicate
i mean you have a unique wonderful franchise in our most important market the philadelphia area
we have a cellular company there a lot of the cable systems
this is three hundred fifty events it's programming content
and as we see the world getting more competitive we see the opportunity to start new channels
we just made a deal with the phillies where we are going to pull all of our television rights start out own cable channel it will be local sports local sports news shows hopefully like this maybe you will come visit us sometime and for the philadelphia area it could be one of the most popular shows
was that a good move them getting into sports as a veteran of this the braves the hawks
i think so
well we've been here for twenty years so you know i just
is it a good business
sports
number
no by itself it's not a good business
you made him feel very good
no by itself it's not a good business but if you have the cable system or the network on your end aaron bogden the entertainment business in the community it it makes more sense than just as a stand alone
in other words you should be in television and aligned businesses
right
we noted
rather than just sports
when when the garden and the knicks and the rangers were sold it was sold with madison square garden network and it went for one billion dollars
yeah we wouldn't have done it without the television
clearly i agree that the sports part of it has got lots of complicated issues but in our case with all of these other pieces it allows you to start all sorts of new channels and that's what we're going to try and do
still to come tom brokaw
we will be right back with ted turner brian roberts and we will take some questions from the audience for two of the giants in american cable
show biz
we're back live at the national cable television association convention in los angeles
we will take some questions from the folks in the audience here
we've got a lot of people standing around and limited seating
there are twenty six thousand people attending this convention
our guests are ted turner and brian roberts
brian will be leaving us in about eight minutes and then tom brokaw will join us
we will have tom and ted together for about five minutes and then mr. brokaw
when mr. brokaw and mr. turner are on we will also have an interpreter
is that okay
what
okay question the gentleman there
don't leave
the gentleman there
ted first of all congratulations on your upcoming chairmanship of n. c. t. a.
back in nineteen eighty one you launched a cable news network all of your forecasts and predictions have been exactly true and actually in some cases you are ahead of your time
now my question to you is sir where are we going to be in the year two thousand five
nine years from now
i don't think we've we've chosen a selection the site for the convention in two thousand five yet so i can't i can't tell you exactly where we will be but hopefully we will all still be alive and that and we won't have a big depression or something
i don't think he means that though
i don't know
i mean there's going to be i don't know i mean it's i think i don't i really don't know
i think it's going to be exciting
you know if we knew what it was going to be then what would be the point of living the next ten years
let's wait and see how it how it develops
are you saying it's not forecastable
well do you remember those those eight balls that you shook and turned over and then it says reply hazy ask again later
the lady
you are both mentioned as two of the giants in cable but you both started off pretty entrepreneurial
where do you see entrepreneurs in the industry in the future as it becomes more and more competitive and there are bigger and better monoliths coming
good question
brian entrepreneurs in the future
i think that's a great question
as you see all of these big mergers including ted and time warner but bell atlantic nynex pac bell southwestern bell it raises that question
but if you think about it i. b. m. was pretty big and along came microsoft
entrepreneurs are the engine of this country and i think that no matter how big some of these companies get there is definitely a critical rela add to jobs they don't cut the jobs
but there's still room out there
a dreamer can still make it
there'll be there'll be there'll be places for people with good ideas by men who want to work hard to be real successful
time warner and you when is it going to happen
you know as soon as the government submits the okay
do you have any problems with it
nah
they're grumbling about it a little bit but
you have no doubt that it will go through
absolutely
you are on the board of turner aren't you
yes i am
do you have any doubts about it
i think in the end it will happen
do you think it will be good for the industry
i think it certainly is going to be good for cable in some ways because time warner has a lot of cable systems now they will have a lot of programming
put the two together i think it helps figure out how we go where do we go next for the next for the next ten years
the main thing is does the public benefit
well i think so and and and you know it will allow us to stay stay by but we're very very small when you're competing with like general electric
are you going to be t. w. t.
they are ten to fifteen times bigger than us
is it going to be time warner turner
that's right now it's time warner
i know but when it's merged
well that's what i don't know
how about turner warner time
ask during the bidding
yeah well fat chance
turner warner time
the gentleman
there are over one hundred million people in the united states that benefit from closed captioning including thirty million hard of hearing and deaf people
why isn't the cable industry doing more for captioning
whoa listen i am one of those one hundred million people
i can't hear
would you please repeat your question
what did you say
no i got it
i got it
number
i i use closed captioning and c. n. n. and headline news are closed captioned
most of our programming is closed captioned
most of our programming is closed captioned and more of it is being closed captioned all the time
brian
i think as we get more digital boxes and devices in t. v.'s it's going to be a service widely available
do you agree with the gentleman
should the whole industry be captioned
i think but listen i mean it for a network that doesn't have closed captioning people that are hearing impaired like the two of us we can't you know we can't watch the program we can read lips a little bit but but so networks that don't have closed captioning are going to lose viewers because there's a lot of us that can't hear very well
we will be back with some more moments with brian roberts and ted turner and then tom brokaw will join us
this is larry king live in los angeles at the national cable television association convention with the incoming ted will be chairman as of wednesday brian's last day as chairman will be wednesday
ah
ah
ah
everybody say ah
ah
we will be right back don't go away
we're back with brian roberts the president of comcast the outgoing chairman of the n. c. t. a. and ted turner president and chairman of the board of turner broadcasting the incoming chairman of comcast
we will spend a few more minutes with brian and then
no i'm not
tom brokaw will be joining us
we will have tom and ted together and then for the final half hour tom will be with us alone
concerning some things individually
you own a lot of q. v. c. right
yes we have over
how successful is shopping at home
it's an amazing growing business electronic retailing
we did seventy million phone calls last year fifty million packages shipped one point six billion dollars worth of merchandise and it's not what you think it is
it's maybe a third jewelry but fifty million dollars worth of sports merchandising
when the super bowl ended we had thirty five thousand of the winning team's jerseys and hats within an hour sold
we have been selling all sorts of merchandise
you don't like it send it back
it's a fabulous business grew twenty five percent last year and it looks like another great year this year
we're delighted
and the rival network is coming
mr. murdoch has been the loudest saying that he's going to take on c. n. n. c. n. n. is too liberal and the like
your response
we will see him when he gets here
you're not you don't sound worried
well what's what am i supposed to do
act real nervous
you know you're supposed to put up a good front in america
well do you think we need four all news networks
well nobody thinks we need that
but
why is everybody going into it
because they they they see we're doing well and they want to copy us
simple as that
right
the future of cable
i think what's exciting about the future of cable is that you take this network and you attach it to a computer or you attach it to a television and we're going to have a whole other leap forward when we go digital and what is exciting about the convention what i hear people talking about is that there is a new medium being created when you have this whole interactive digital world and people have been frustrated it hasn't gotten here quick enough
but once they play with it's they say when can i get it in my house
it's great and that's that's what is exciting about the business
when do you turn the gavel over to ted
as soon as possible but wednesday afternoon the board if he is elected as he will be and it's it really is an honor for the first programmer it shows how far the industry is working well together and that's part of why it's exciting for ted
and we're going to wind up that session with gerald levin
yes
we're doing
all right
a larry king live for the convection only
all right you sit a few minutes brian thank you
ladies and gentlemen let's hear it for brian roberts president of comcast outgoing chairman
when we come back a first
a television first
brokaw and turner together
this could be big
don't go away
we're back at the national cable television association convention and joining ted turner the president and chairman of the board of turner broadcasting and the incoming chairman of the n. c. t. a. is the famed tom brokaw the host of n. b. c. nightly news this month he celebrates his thirtieth anniversary with n. b. c.
what a way to wind up his final year at that network
only kidding
trouble maker trouble maker
but we also want to prove to you that not all in montana has gone whacked
both these men live in montana
that's right
all right ted there are rumors circulating that you are after brokaw
yes
for fishing
yeah we go fly fishing every year
you would like you would in other words if tom were available you would take him
well if we could cut a deal
all right there were stories there were stories today in the paper tom johnson the president of c. n. n. a very close friend of yours
what a pal
what what give us a statement
well he's an old friend and ted is a new friend and a great fishing pal and i've been a big fan of c. n. n. for a long time but i am here because n. b. c. and m. s. n. b. c. are getting ready to launch this new enterprise and it's going to be great for everybody and i've been at this company n. b. c. for thirty years they've been very good to me i'm very flattered i am a big fan as you know of c. n. n. but i've got a place to call home in the meantime
and i think it's what i think is great is that the audience out there and all the people who look at that box to get information and and to find out what is going on in their lives will have so many more choices now and we're very excited about going on the air on july fifteenth and we have no illusions about the nature of the competition that we face
i mean we're just a little tiny pipsqueak out there on the horizon
ha ha ha
why are you going ha ha ha
do you think n. b. c. is going to be trouble
sure
i think everything's trouble
you know there is one hundred channels out there and if if they've only got one viewer that's one viewer that we don't have
i mean you know we've we've got the most viewers in the cable universe not counting the broadcast as we said but when you add all our viewers together t. b. s. t. n. t. cartoon c. n. n. headline news et cetera but we care about every viewer
yeah
you know it's a fight for every viewer
and that's true with the broadcast news
you know it's a battle royal every minute of every day
did you ever think this would happen with cable
no i really didn't
i mean i actually ted and i talked about it one time and he said to me what did you think when we first started c. n. n.
and i remember vividly watching that first day and i said to him i thought it was a brilliant concept but i thought you would go broke
and i remember the answer you said to me i almost did a couple of times
oh absolutely
so it took it took enormous courage on his part and vision and now to think it's not just cable and the broadcasters coming together but we're in we're in partnership with microsoft
we're in the computer business as well
so all of there is this kind of confluence of all this new technology coming into your living room coming into your bedroom coming into your kitchen wherever you do business on one of these boxes and you will the possibilities are limitless
what's causing all this
time warner and turner microsoft and n. b. c. everybody we're going to have ten corporations in america
what's going on
why
well the cost of competing is is so great it's like world war two you know you couldn't fight by yourself
when poland was when they didn't have anybody fighting with them they got they got beaten
and you just have to build up alliances and be big big enough and strong enough
i mean n. b. c. is part of general electric
i think the do fifty billion dollars a year
well i do four billion dollars a year so i am you know less than one tenth the size of general electric
and
at and t. is coming into the business and all of the phone companies
i mean it's it's it's a nightmare and and we've got to be part of a bigger company that's all
i mean it's it's sad but that's just the way it is
are you giving any thoughts to are you hearing other offers
i mean that's fair to ask
your contract's up
are you hearing are you listening
what i hear from meredith brokaw is that we ought to go to montana and put our feet up and do a lot of fishing and ride a lot of horses
that's right
hey listen we're going to be friends no matter what happens
you know you know i mean michael jordan doesn't play for the hawks
i wish he did
but but i still like him a lot
are you going to bid for michael jordan
can't
i mean michael jordan is the property of the chicago bills
he's a free agent
i don't maybe i could get him as a baseball player
all right time warner turner that merger happened by gerald levin going to montana right
what if
well it's well that's
okay what if brokaw and you sat down in montana
well we do
i mean
we do
every summer we usually talk about it
we you know that's
why can't i get are you saying you would be you would listen
that's all i am asking
of course i'm listening
you know i have the highest regard for ted
i think he's one of the i really honestly believe that he is one of the great entrepreneurial minds of the twentieth century not just in this country but around the world
the greatest sail racer of his time and then invented this new form it has been great for my chosen profession of journalism
i think it's changed the equation in all the right ways
but i've spent thirty very happy years at a place that i feel very strongly about with a lot of very wonderful colleagues who have been only supportive of me
and as you know larry it's not the people it's not the people that are on the air with you
damn right
but the guys down in the editing room
the correspondent that you pick up the phone and say you've got to go to rwanda or the cameraman who lives in south africa and puts his life on the line when he goes up to up to a hell hole somewhere
those people are all very important to me and we've and we've come through a lot together so i wouldn't give that up lightly
but i've of course i love being with him and i we have a great time fishing
i mean we spend three days together and i can barely raise my flyrod by the end i am laughing so hard
no one admires loyalty more than you right
that's right
so if he stays loyal you will admire him
oh hey listen we shouldn't talk about that anymore larry
i'm not
we should go on to something else
thank you ted
you bet
thank you larry
thank you tom
ted turner ladies and gentlemen
the chairman incoming chairman of n. c. t. a. and president of turner broadcasting
we will remain with your questions for tom brokaw right after this
don't go away
we're back with tom brokaw
we will be taking questions for tom
you may wonder why we have an empty chair there
one could say it's because no one can fill a chair that was sat in by ted turner
others could say it's for peter jennings maybe
or dan rather
or others could say
or bernard shaw you see it's the empty chair in honor
or you could say that the crew couldn't get it out of there in time before the break
you could say that as well
it could have been one of those things too
do you pinch yourself every day
i do
this is a life i think that you and i would say the same thing about it
it
we talked about this once
do you believe this
beyond my wildest expectations
you know i grew up in a working class family in south dakota and i had two wonderful parents who tried to provide everything that they could for me which is a good education and good values and then i launched myself in nineteen sixty two with my wife of almost thirty five years now meredith from a small town and very quickly we were in los angeles and working for the network and when we got here in nineteen sixty six thirty years ago this week
this city
i thought i don't ask anything more
not bad
you know no this was great
and
you anchored here
i anchored here and i was a correspondent as well for the network during that time
so i had a kind of bifurcated role i did a lot of political reporting out of southern california
it was a very important time in our life with a lot going on obviously in the sixties here
i remember when i arrived in may of nineteen sixty six and i came into cover a lot of politics
and they said well there is this guy running for governor we don't think he's going to win the republican nomination but you can being by covering ronald reagan so early on i was riding a bus with ronald reagan out in orange county and different places
this must have been a great local news market
it was and we were the first ones you know
when i came in here c. b. s. was a very strong station in those days and n. b. c. then went to the first two hour local format
and i daresay one of the disappointments i've had in the last thirty years is the character of local news has changed in a way that i don't think is for the better
fires and crimes
right and you know and it's mostly captions beneath pictures somewhere
we had investigative units and we were breaking stories all over the place and we did serious education news we did serious political news
city hall was covered as it should be
i had the whole west as my beat you know when it came to politics
and a lot of very good people came out of here
bryant gumbel was working at the time tom snyder was working here at the time and we had two hours of local news and it was breathtaking
how did you come to the network
i was working first in omaha after i left south dakota and i drew a little attention them from the people in chicago at n. b. c.
got a job in atlanta at the height of the civil rights movement on w. s. b.
there were a couple of big stories that the network couldn't get their correspondents to quickly enough so i would go down and cover for them until they got there
and you know and modestly had a couple of beats and they noticed that and they said gee we'd like to take you to california
and how from l. a. to new york
well i when i was out here you know i was doing a lot of national political reporting and when watergate began to break and i knew a lot of the people in the nixon white house because many of them came from here bob haldemann and ron ziegler and so on and i mean i had covered them in the past
they said well it's time now john chancellor i remember said to me you know it's time to give up that good life on the beach and move back to the east and be a grownup my family resisted the idea but i landed in the middle of the biggest political story of the two hundred years of this constitutional system
you've been quoted in the papers saying that you want to do other things
does that mean you are tired of anchoring
well you know i am less taken with the idea of being on television than i suppose a lot of people would believe
i have been doing this most of my adult life
the idea of going on every night and saying good evening and then saying good night i'll see you again tomorrow night is not the most gratifying part of the work for me
you know the most important part of what we do is deciding what we should put on the air that night and how we can do it
so you think you might want to do what
well i'd like to be able to have a little more a time to reflect
i am writing a book right now not about myself but about where this country is as it goes into the twenty first century
ted and i do enjoy a lot of things in the out of doors and i am not getting any younger and i want to make sure i still have my legs
so you want less time on the air
yeah that would be fine with me
so why add a talk show
well because i think it's important for this network to get this new enterprise underway in the right fashion and if i can make a contribution to that i am happy to do it
i also feel strongly that that we need to raise more issues before this country
you are the only place in the evening really where you can tune in and get kind of enlightened political talk several nights a week
well we we just think there ought to be more places like that
so
now
we're going to do it
are you will you be committed to that for a long time or are you just helping them get it off the ground
we're going to see how it goes
i'm going to certainly do it through the election and probably a little bit beyond that but certainly after the election that is where my commitment is right now
and a lot of very good people that are going to be on the new m. s. n. b. c. twenty four hour a day
did you ever are there ever nights when you are saying i i'm not thrilled with this
oh sure
i mean what happens is that you know i kind of run down in terms of my intellectual and emotional commitment to what i am doing and then a big story breaks
or i go to a place like oklahoma city one year later for example and stand there and see those people and know what they've been through and feel if i have a small part in conveying that to the rest of the country and to the rest of the world this is an honorable line of work
standing at the berlin wall i ran some of that tape
i will never forget that night
interviewing gorbachev
the day the challenger went down
the old days in the civil rights movement you'd be in a small town in the dark of night there would be a lot of very nasty people surrounding you and you would see these brave young black people come out of a church and say we're going to march down that street for your rights and i'd say to them but they say they are going to kill you and they said well we're going to have to take that chance and you know i think it's a real privilege to be an american journalist
i really do
we have enormous freedoms and we have i believe a very important role and we ought not to in any way diminish that
and television's impact has increased tremendously right
i mean since you started in it
it's you know
never a second is it that
there's one of those sets in almost every room in every house in america and there is so much information that comes out of it
and if you if you work at it a little bit you can see and learn just about anything that you want to these days
so i think it's it's a rich environment and i'm glad to be a part of it
by the way tomorrow night leslie abramson will be with us and in his first appearance since being fired in new york the controversial talk show host bob grant will be with us tomorrow night
and one week from tomorrow night in new york with tom's compatriot peter jennings
we will be right back and take some questions from the audience for tom brokaw right after this
don't go away
we're back with tom brokaw
before we take some questions from the audience the the night of the simpson thing he didn't show he didn't come
in the long range view mightn't you have been better off had that not
i didn't think
occurred
was it a no win
i tell you my family certainly thought i was better of
i had quite a about as spirited discussions with my daughters as i've ever had about the idea that i was going to sit down with him in the first place
but i always believed that something would go wrong at the last minute
really
yeah i did
from the from the very beginning i'd say to andy and others listen i will be surprised if he shows up
and when we did that show that night it was you that told andy lack to call in right
well we were we were on the phone together watching
we knew that you were going to have the critics on and no one knew anything and you know god bless them we all should have critics in life but they were on saying what they thought had happened and what we should have done
the fact is that we did everything right and the integrity of n. b. c. news was at stake and we drew the line and we said no there will be no conditions we had a lot of tough questions
but you told him to call in right
yeah i got on the phone to andy and i said you've got to call and at that point they were beth comstalk who is in the audience here had the number handy and she was ready to have him make the call
yeah
the gentleman as we go to questions for tom brokaw
yes sir i feel the news has become extremely negative
do you think we need to interject more positive stories for a brighter future
constant complaint
you know it's something i've been hearing for as long as i've been doing this
and in fact every night we have something in the news that is uplifting
just tonight robert rozelle had a report on some new treatments for rheumatoid arthritis for example a medical advancement
that's an example of good news
we've sent norman schwarzkopf out across america to find schwarzkopf's heroes
we do something called the american dream at the end of every week
but our obligation really is to tell people what changes are taking place in society so they will know how to respond to them
and if we kind of take a pollyanna attitude and say oh everything's fine and cover it up it quickly reaches a critical mass and then you cannot deal with it
so it's it's better to do what we're doing
and i'm you know by the way you know one person's idea of bad news is another person's idea of good news
so it's very hard to say if there is a hard formula here
the lady
mr. brokaw we enjoy your in depth stories every evening but i wonder you mentioned choosing which stories are put on the air is there an issue facing the country right now that you feel is not getting enough coverage
good question
well i think yeah i do
i think that the single most difficult issue that we face in america is the continuing conflict over race
black white brown and asian
and we have not resolved that
thirty years ago when i was covering watts and covering the south i really thought that in my lifetime i would see a resolution of that
in some ways i think if you ask people of good will whatever their color whether it's better or worse now in some ways it's worse it's more polarized
why
i think that there is more suspicion
there has been less of an effort to find a kind of commonwealth here
i think people are better organized now than they were thirty years ago
i think that there is we just have not been able to get over a kind of a moral hurdle when it comes to race
and this flies back and forth across the racial line
you know not all of the responsibility lies with the white majority population
certainly all people of color have to think about how they look at each other and what they bring to their first impression
should we cover it better
yes i think we should
i think we should cover it more honestly
i think that we should be bolder in our coverage of it
and i think that and it is as you know in your own newsrooms it's an incendiary issue because people quickly become polarized
well we're going to cover it this way and people say well no we can't do that because it will be politically incorrect or make people feel bad i think that this society has got to start talking about race in ways that it has not and i say to folks when i go out around the country if i am talking to a black audience i will say do you have any white friends that you have dinner with and do you ask them the questions that you discuss among each other
i say to my white friends when was the last time you had a really heart to heart conversation with a black person
in this community of los angeles where you have such a melting pot i was just reading today that korean merchants for example feel that they have not recovered from the riots of the rodney king era and they are struggling to find their place
and there will be another show tomorrow
never stops
and you know that that is coming
exactly
and it is an issue that we have not put on the national agenda as we did during the nineteen sixties
back with more and more questions for tom brokaw on larry king live right after this
don't go away
turner has a very impressive set up here at this convention like in the middle of things
our guest is tom brokaw let's take a phone call and some more questions from the audience
wilkes barre pennsylvania
hello
hello larry and mr. brokaw
mr. brokaw my question to you is what single interview or covered event throughout your your own career would you consider to be the most memorable to you and why
i guess i'd have to say a combination of two things
standing at the berlin on the night that it came down and i was the only one there live around the world and that was a memorable time because it was a historic event and it really began the slow death of communism began to then speed up with that event
and having lived with the berlin wall most of my professional life it was a privilege to stand there and see it come down
and then i did the first interview with mikhail gorbachev that a western journalist ever did with a general secretary of the communist party
it was difficult because as we later learned he loved to talk and didn't like to listen and we had troubles with the translation but it was still a breakthrough time because then those communist leaders became accessible to all of us from the west
so those were the two that
when emotion takes over does that affect reporters
like you are standing at the wall
i remember saying to myself larry don't screw this one up this is this is a big night
try to keep it in perspective
deal with the facts as you know them at the same time to that younger audience out there try to connect them to what is happening here not just through the young people who are coming over the wall but their parents had lived with this since the end of world war two and there is behind that wall a whole population of people who have been effectively imprisoned for all of our lifetime and now they are free
the gentleman
yes sir
i've been in the business of broadcasting international broadcasting for over ten years
i'd like to ask you tom what does it take to be a news anchor for a network and how would you map against your success sir
what would be your choice
well i one of the things that happened to me is that in my generation i was one of the few young people that i knew when i started off in this business who decided to go into broadcast journalism
if there hadn't been television i'd have been a newspaperman
so the competition wasn't as massive as it is now
everyone i know now and you must get this a lot you know every friend that has
wants to be here
they send their children to me and they are these bright bright young people who might have at one time gone into medicine or into law or into politics or something else now they want to be in this business
i think you have to learn to write you have to have an enormous curiosity about what is going on in the world and you have to be prepared to live an unconventional life
do you have your successor already at n. b. c.
do they know who is going to
they have a lot of very good people at n. b. c. and i am not going to get into that game on this larry at this point because i've got to i've got to work with them and around them for the next ten years
we've got a lot of people
the gentleman
mr. brokaw i'm interested in your view of how the new selection process is impacted by corporate sponsorship
not at all
i mean we don't
at all
not at all
i mean it never comes up
in fact when g. e. bought n. b. c. we had a little session within the news division and we decided that we ought to do two things
we probably ought to cover more stories about g. e. than the other two would when they were critical stories just because after all it's ceasar's wife and the second thing that we did every time we do a story about g. e. we say general electric corporate parent of n. b. c. news
so there is no illusion out there that we are trying to slide something by
truth will serve you best all the time
all the time
we will be back with our remaining moments with tom brokaw on larry king live
sharon stone on friday night
this ain't a bad job
not tonight
not tonight
oh okay
we will be right back
we're back with tom brokaw
tom tom just reminded our audience that we were on the same airplane going into des moines iowa to broadcast from the primary at the vote there and we hit wind sheer
i had never had wind sheer neither had you
no not on a landing like that
there is no sound quite like that
number
the plane went into reverse
they had to they thrust the engines twice and the discussion that we had was because larry was on board i was on board bob woodward was on board
what would the headline be
right
who would get top billing
journalists are macabre
we are
that's the first thing we said when we landed
what's the story
what would be and then the one guy coming off the plane
nobody would have mentioned me
no david
we asked brian we asked ted your thoughts two thousand five what's on television
all that you see now and much much more
i think there will be a real synergy between the large screen television and the small screen the personal computer
there will be much more of a relationship between them than you have now
i think you will using the large screen to both get entertainment and sports and news and information and also to do a lot more consumer use of it
not just the home shopping network kind of things but the virtual reality in which you can go through them all guided by your by your personal computer
so there will be a ton of stuff
and the great thing about this business is that i don't think a year from now we know exactly the formula it is going to take
ten years ago we didn't know that personal computers were coming our way
they had changed our world
and we'll be here
you and i will be
you bet
thanks tom
thanks larry
thanks
thanks to the earlier guests and ted turner
we will see you tomorrow night in the studios here in los angeles with leslie abramson and bob grant
for everybody here in los angeles for tom johnson the president of c. n. n. the whole crew wendy walker whitworth our producer they never get call credits on this show so we will give it to them now
bye bye
good evening
ugly bitter nasty a long simmering business feud between two entertainment giants tonight is in court
m. c. a. has filed suit against viacom saying it's being locked out of viacom's newest cable channel
viacom's response swift and to the point a counter suit
the legal tit for tat is coming on the day viacom launches its newest network nick at nite's t. v. land and not by coincidence
this could be a very lucrative program service for viacom's nickleodeon
obviously they don't want to share the profits of that new service which would come out of their own product with m. c. a.
but i hope that these companies will both realize the worst thing in this industry is having these suits like the u. s. west time warner one for example
m. c. a. says when viacom bought paramount two years ago it put the cable giant on notice
it expected to be part of any new cable channels viacom launched
m. c. a. and viacom are already partners in the u. s. a. network
m. c. a. is suing to force viacom to sell its stake in u. s. a. networks
the lawsuit comes just one week after ousted viacom chief frank biondi signed on as chairman and c. e. o. of m. c. a. a move that went forward only after viacom chairman sumner redstone waived biondi's one year non compete clause
the business battle is now in court and on wall street the two companies today tied both stocks closing up an eighth in price
wall street however did react to a pair of big mergers
provident today bought paul revere paying one point two billion dollars in cash and stock
that deal combines two rivals in the disability and life insurance business
the merged company will hold a thirty five percent share of the market
shares of provident rose two and one half dollars a share
paul revere slipped an eighth
and a mega deal tonight in the computer services industry computer sciences today bought continuum in a stock swap valued at one point five billion dollars
the purchase boosts computer science's presence in a key market software and services for the insurance and banking industries
continuum's shares skyrocketed twelve dollar and twenty five cent a share almost a third in price while computer sciences lost two dollar and seventy five cent a share
well the tech stocks overall have been on a rampage over the past few weeks
technology research firm dataquest today predicted the world wide p. c. market will grown nineteen percent this year and register double digit growth for the rest of the decade
hundreds of companies are trying to tap into the expanding field
casey wian has our report
computer pioneer stephen jobs kicking off the hambrecht and quist technology conference where three hundred companies with more than one hundred fifty billion dollars in annual sales are pitching money managers
on everyone's mind can technology stocks keep wowing wall street
dell computer discounted forecasts of slower industry growth and profit squeezing price wars
we're talking about an environment in which at least the lead players or steerers as i'm fond of saying have called out fairly robust demand
most industries would kill to have that kind of demand
techonology's share of u. s. domestic product grew from four percent in the early eighties to ten percent today
we're not stopping at ten percent of the g. d. p.
in fact i think the rate of penetration will accelerate
fundamentally the outlook for technology has never been better
still some are here to explain disappointing results
seagate technologies recently acquired a competitor and promptly lost money and sales
but seagate has a third of the world's disk drive market and predicts growth
it doesn't seem that long ago when i was hoping that we could break the one billion dollar barrier
obviously now i'm anxious to see us break the ten billion dollar barrier
privately held gradient technologies makes programs for corporate internet users
it's c. e. o. has seen other internet companies go public recently raising hundreds of millions of dollars
are you here as maybe part of a plan to go public
well the company's profitable and growing so we haven't found a financial drive for it
but it is an interesting and tempting market there's no doubt about it
during the past year the number of publicly traded internet companies has tripled to more than thirty
this friday the conference concludes with three major players microsoft intuit and sun microsystems presenting their internet strategies
casey wian c. n. n. financial news san francisco
on wall street today high tech stocks continued to wow investors
the tech heavy nasdeq composite hit a record high the eighth straight record today rising one point three one to finish at one thousand one hundred eighty eight point two oh
heavy trading almost five hundred fifty four million shares were traded
and the dow jones industrials tonight at five thousand five hundred seventy three point four one gaining five point four two
volume more than three hundred forty four million shares
bond prices meanwhile selling lower
the treasury's thirty year issue down more than a half point in price and the yield tonight at six point eight four percent
bonds lost ground despite weak economic news new home sales in march declined by seven point six percent to the lowest in ten months
february's sales also revised lower
the housing sector is essentially flat having already responded to a very significant increase in interest rates
we've seen interest rates move up one full percentage point over the course of the past several weeks
that's of course making mortgages more expensive and deterring some new home buyers
well in the nation's heartland today rain fell and so did grain prices sinking from recent highs as traders saw an end to the drought
from chicago ceci rodgers has more on today's volatile session
heavy rainfall in the midwest helped reign in record high grain prices
the may contracts for wheat and corn now trading with no price limits because they expire in three weeks plummeted an unprecedented sixty five cents and thirty three and three quarters cents respectively
we're in an extremely volatile situation with historic highs
so you have to expect very significant moves both up and down
made all the more explosive by the lowest supply of available wheat in fifty years and the smallest stockpile of corn in twenty years
and in the wake of the march expiration of wheat when prices rocketed two dollar and fifty cent a bushel in the final minutes of trading the chicago board of trade and commodity regulators are closely scrutinizing the trading pits
the commodity futures trading commission is sending a clear message to traders don't compromise the integrity of the market
some of the expirations are natural occurrences and we think the marketplace is safe
but if you don't belong in the market get out
the board of trade has nearly doubled the amount of money speculators must put on margin to trade grains contracts and in response to customer complaints members are meeting this week to discuss better handling of small orders possibly by sending more of them to the exchange's mid america division where grains mini contracts trade
we have no plans right now to build a new agricultural trading floor but we are looking at ways to maybe reconfigure the floor to make it more efficient and to get the orders in and out of the pit in a more expeditious manner
traders are anticipating a wild ride in the coming months as the vagaries of mother nature wreak havoc on the grains markets
ceci rodgers c. n. n. financial news chicago
and coming up next on moneyline the new man at the helm of hilton hotels
my guest tonight is hilton chief executive officer steven bohlenback
and we'll tell you about the latest trend in society
it's cigar smoking and it's becoming quite the fashion for a growing number of men yes and women
you can't do drugs you can't have sex you can't eat this
there are very few things left you can do
having a good cigar and enjoying a nice meal is what it's all about
it's one of the few vices left that we can do that doesn't hurt anybody
well hilton today confirmed it is in talks with the british betting house laddbrooke and hotel chain the owner of the hilton international chain
speculation is the two will merge in what could be a better than seven dollar billion deal
hilton is also pursuing acquisitions in the gaming industry all of this under the leadership of a new chief executive officer a former disney executive who knows more than a thing or two about acquisitions
he helped engineer the purchase of a. b. c. cap cities while at disney
my guest tonight is stephen bollenbach and we welcome you steve to moneyline
thank you lou glad to be here
you've had quite a run so far
is it is it this rate this pace sustainable
yeah i think so
i mean you have to understand that the opportunity that we have at hilton hotels is to take a company that's basically under levered in a very very friendly capital market and use those funds and use our financial capacity to invest in two strong and really good businesses the full service hotel business and then also our gaming business
so we've got a lot of opportunity
those two opportunities you don't mention the management business
is that still a significant interest to you
oh absolutely and the only reason i don't mention is that it's a more long term process but another huge asset we have is the hilton name and the opportunity to use that name both in terms of franchising our name and also in the area of managing hotels is another significant asset for us
are you steve on an aggressive acquisition campaign for full service hotels
yes we are
we do realize that these are good capital markets
we do realize that our company is under levered and so to have an opportunity to invest in our lines of businesses is a very very important asset in and of itself for us
and so we're looking at a number of opportunities to buy hotels full service hotels big hotels hotels where there's a not a lot of competition for acquisition just because of the sheer size of the deals
you know fifty dollars one hundred dollar million transactions so there's not a lot of competition on the buy side
and the other good very good part about this is for these kinds of properties it's very very unlikely that there'll be competing supply in the form of new construction for many many years and so it's the area that we want to concentrate our investment is at the upper end of the hotel business
you're describing an ideal situation in terms of acquisition and also at this same time your cost of funds with the capital markets the way they are right now this looks like you have a two edged advantage
you're absolutely correct
they're friendly capital environments
those are only useful to companies like ourselves that have an under levered balance sheet and a excellent credit rating so that we can tap those markets and we have access to the markets
the money is very cheap and we have an opportunity to invest it so it is truly a wonderful time for us to be in this industry and to be in our position we're in terms of our balance sheet and our ability to tap the capital markets
i don't know if one would describe the environment as cheap but the gaming industry is certainly going through some terrific times
and so what are your plans in terms of the gaming industry
well the interesting thing about the gaming industry is that i think for the next few years and i think it's generally accepted is that there's not going to be expansion by way of new jurisdictions
but the opportunity for a big well capitalized company like hilton is to be a participant and i hope the leader in what will be a natural consolidation of the business
and in many respects it's going to be like the cable business was fifteen twenty years ago where the growth came through consolidation as much as it did through new opportunities
what we're going to find in the gaming business is that it's a two tiered industry with a few very large well capitalized companies which should lead to consolidation and be the leaders in the consolidation of the business
who would you like to consolidate next
well it's the kind of area where we really can't talk about specific transactions but i think lou that just understand that to be a credit in an industry where there really is a two tiered credit rating where other people have more expensive capital than we have gives us a huge opportunity to be the leader in this consolidation which is certain to come
we've been reporting the confirmed discussions with laddbrooke's
where do you hope for that to lead
are you talking
can you share with us whether you're talking a joint venture some sort of strategic alliance or an actual merger or acquisition
well i think the economics of us bringing these two companies that share the brand and i think most of your audience recognizes that the name hilton outside the united states is owned by an english company named laddbrooke
right
within the united states we have it
the economics of bringing these two names together are just so compelling that it's of very high interest to me
i've spent a lot of my personal time working on this along with peter george who is the chief executive of laddbrooke's and we're trying to find a way to bring these two names together
the closer we can get them together i believe and i think peter believes the better
now whether that means joint venture or a more structured business combination we'll have to wait and see how that works out
and bally's is that deal on or off
we're just not going to be able to comment about any of the acquisitions that we're working on in the gaming area
well steve we appreciate you being here to talk about all that you could
steve bollenbach of hilton we wish you continued success
thank you very much lou
thanks steve
well coming up next we'll tell you about a proposal that would ease the pain of those rising gasoline prices republican phil gramm is calling for an outright repeal of the gasoline tax
we'll tell you how president clinton feels about that idea
stay with us
in washington today republican senator phil gramm proposed the repeal of a four point three percent rather four point three cent per gallon gasoline tax
president clinton meanwhile ordered the sale of twelve million barrels of oil reserves both moves intended to counter a five percent surge in gasoline prices over the past two weeks an increase resulting from both higher demand and higher crude oil prices
irv chapman has our report from washington
president clinton speeding up sales of petroleum from the government's reserves hoping to bring down gasoline prices and easing the political heat over higher prices at the pump
congress authorized the sale of two hundred twenty seven million dollars worth of oil in last week's budget deal as a money raiser
mr. clinton acted after republicans got into the gas price issue candidate bob dole urging the repeal of the gas tax hike that was in the first clinton budget
at four point three cents a gallon it's already put eleven point two five billion dollars into the treasury
every time people fill up their minivan or their truck or their car by repealing this gasoline tax we can save them about a dollar a tank
white house and democratic leaders didn't reject the idea out of hand but just pointed out that without the extra gas tax they'd all have to find another eleven point two five billion dollars for the next two and a half years
it's easy for the republicans to come up with ways with which to not dismantle this extremely successful package but i want to see how they're going to do it and if they can come up with a way that will generate the same deficit reduction in the next four years as we've done in the last four
the oil industry says gas prices are up because of market forces and the reserve is for emergencies such as an embargo
the energy department expects the sales will bring gas prices down even though in the market gas prices lag behind changes in the price of crude oil
irv chapman c. n. n. financial news washington
well the lag usually on the way down not usually on the way up
blue chip stocks today on wall street moving higher the dow jones industrials tonight at five thousand five hundred seventy three point four one a gain of five point four two and volume only moderate trading three hundred forty four million shares on the big board where declining issues beat out advancers by a margin of almost six to five
the composite just shy of its record high tonight
it stands at three hundred fifty one point two four after a gain of zero point four two
the s. and p. five hundred is six hundred fifty four point one six after a gain of zero point seven zero
the dow transports lost three point six five while the utilities despite a weak bond market rose zero point seven seven
the nasdeq composite settings its eighth consecutive record
it stands at one thousand one hundred eighty eight point two oh tonight gaining one point three one on volume of almost five hundred fifty four million shares
the american exchange composite five hundred ninety two point seven five losing zero point eight two retreating from friday's record
and volume more than twenty seven million shares
tonight's moneyline movers are led by mid atlantic medical services which dropped four dollar and zero cent a share
investors dumped shares after the company warned first quarter profits will be sharply lower
and solomon brothers and merrill lynch both downgraded the stock today
acuson up a one dollar and twenty five cent a share j. p. morgan upgraded the stock following the launch of its new ultrasound imaging system
novella systems dropping four dollar and twenty five cent a share embrecht and quist cutting next year's earnings estimates warning of a possible slump for semi conductor equipment manufacturers
geoworks rallied four dollar and twenty five cent a share teaming up with japan's n. e. c. to develop advanced digital cellular telephones
georgia pacific up two dollar and twenty five cent a share paper stocks continuing their rally on anticipation of rebound in pulp prices
and in corporate news tonight boeing's first quarter profits declining thirty four percent largely because of last year's machinist strike
boeing also hiked its dividend by twelve percent the first increase in nearly six years
ann taylor dropped seventy five cents a share
shareholders some of them are filing a class action lawsuit against the company and controlling share holder merrill lynch accusing the two of misrepresenting the company's business inventories and earnings
ann taylor says the suit has no merit
m. c. i. launched a variety of service packages under the label m. c. i. i. the deal offers numerous existing services such as cellular phones internet access and paging for one monthly fee
coming up next here on moneyline the cigar boom
the smokes are no longer synonymous will grandpas and gangsters
and academia can wait for this college basketball star
the n. b. a. has called
in an age when political correctness has been raised to the level of orthodoxy bucking convention can often mean big business
one example is a habit objectionable to many which is becoming fashionable once again
i'm talking of course about the cigar craze raising tempers in some quarters while raising millions of dollars in others
sean callebs has our story from new york
last year sales of premium or hand made cigars in the u. s. increased almost thirty one percent
flying the name of its top selling premium cigar brand on its awning club macanudo is flagship store of the cullbro corporation which also manufactures particus and canary adoro brands
the objective here is to make money
and the investment is large but we think of this as a prototype
and we're very hopeful that this will become a way for us to extend the concept of club macanudos around the country and perhaps around the world
few expenses have been spared in this high end retreat for the cigar aficionado where for six hundred dollars a year you can rent a private humidor alongside some famous names
but services do not stop here
if you're here and you have a little bit of work to do we have portable laptops for your disposal
we have fax machine limousine service
we act as a concierge service
we have mail order
we have a web site for information
and we also have our cigar classes which are filling up rapidly
with more than one hundred different types of cigars on sale customers can also pick up cigar holders sportswear or this two thousand dollars humidor made by artist daniel marshall
finally what words of consolation can be offered to those who deplore cigars distinctive characteristics
don't come to club macanudo
sean callebs c. n. n. financial news new york
and finally big buck lure two top basketball players out of the classroom
marcus canby of the university of massachusetts today announced he'll bypass his senior year to enter the n. b. a. draft
canby was last year's college player of the year
he's expected to be among the top three picks in the draft
the number one draft will likely earn more than nine million dollars over the next three years
also today philadelphia high school star toby bryant announced his plans to skip college entirely
he will go directly to the pros
bryant is expected to be among the top ten picks which will mean around four million dollars over the next three years not bad pay for a teenager or anyone else for that matter
that's moneyline for this monday evening
thanks for being with us
i'm lou dobbs
good night from new york
coast guard rescue crews are searching in southern maryland for signs of the former c. i. a. director william colby
he was reported missing from his vacation home on cobb island maryland sunday
a canoe used by the seventy six year old colby was discovered capsized in the area
c. n. n.'s carl rochelle is with us now live from charles county maryland where colby last was seen
reid i'm right outside of the cobb island fire department where the rescue attempt and the search attempt was mounted this morning
just a little while ago they sent out a dozen more divers several more boats taking them out into the area more divers on the way to look for william colby
we got an update on what the situation is just a few minutes ago at a news conference here from the sheriff of charles county
last night when the call initially went out we searched the area of the pier and the ladder pretty thoroughly and didn't turn anything up there
based on the information we have with where the canoe was found d. n. r. is currently referencing tide tables and wind tables from yesterday
we're going to try to work backwards basically from the point the canoe was found on the beach
i think that was the diver bill porter the person who's heading the charles county dive team that's going in to look for the assumption is that william colby may have drowned
now this all started last evening when neighbors people who live next door to the former c. i. a. director noticed that he had not gone back to washington as he usually does on sunday afternoon
they went over to the house a summer beach place if you will a recreational place on the water down here in this area and noticed that the radio was playing the computer was still on unlike some earlier reports there was not a partially meal but there were dirty dishes in the sink where he had eaten and the dishes had been put after the meal
they went out to the pier to look for him noticed that a ladder that he used to get down to his canoe was down and that the canoe was gone
not seeing him around they called authorities and the search started
they looked throughout the evening last evening and at about ten o'clock managed to find the canoe
the canoe had been found in the water by a neighbor down the river and pulled ashore and tied up so where the canoe was located is not necessarily the point where former c. i. a. director colby may have gone overboard
a lot of that is what they are trying to sort out this morning but the primary thing right now is to search the waters looking for colby and one of the divers who is working it told us it's an extremely difficult job
carl one of the neighbors is quoted as having been told by mrs. colby who was not in the area at the time evidently that she had talked to her husband and he had said he was going canoeing although he didn't feel well
are you going to be able to ascertain if that's a true conversation
that is in fact a true conversation reid
it took place on saturday evening
she is out of town but they did chat by phone and he told her that he did not feel well
now the authorities here are not more specific than that
they didn't know whether it was chest pains or whether it was the flu or whether he'd stubbed his big toe if you will
they had no idea what it was just that he did not feel well but he intended to go canoeing anyhow
and that's about all we know about that particular issue just that one conversation
all right
thank you carl rochelle live from lower maryland
the massacre in australia came to a fiery end early today
a suspect is in custody and the mourning process begins
john raedler joins us now on the phone from hobart australia with the latest developments in this story
john
bobbie it is now thirty six hours since the peace and tranquility of port arthur was shattered by the worst mass murder in modern australian history
thirty six hours and almost as many people dead thirty four fatalities at this stage with that toll expected to go to thirty five
this is how the drama finished
nearly twenty four hours of mayhem ended here in these smoldering remains of a guest house near port arthur
it was here that the alleged gunman's three hostages are believed to have met the same fate as more than thirty other people yesterday death by gunfire
after he carried out the last of his killing the suspect apparently set fire to the two story house eventually running from it with his clothes ablaze
waiting police arrested him he was rushed to hospital in hobart and admitted for treatment for minor burns
the man is being kept isolated from other patients and is under heavy police guard
as we conduct the inquiries we hope to explore it as soon as we can but i can't tell you exactly when and if any charges will be laid
police have not yet released the suspect's identity nor any reason for his horrific action
later monday police allowed news media into the historic site of port arthur revered relic of australia's convict past twenty four hours earlier its tranquility shattered by hundreds of staccato gun blasts
the first and the worst of the carnage happened here twenty people killed in this cafe just behind me another four people killed outside
elsewhere the gunman's car with a surfboard on top green blankets covering the blood of victims
a policeman recounts the especially tragic demise of a woman and her two little daughters
it's our understanding that the mother was carrying the three year old baby when they were both shot and the six year old ran away trying to escape and was shot in the process
more signs of the rampage shot up cars their drivers and passengers either dead or wounded and more blankets covering more blood
only now is the shock sinking in
we watched dunblane and lockerbie and places and the fire we stand by but when we're here it's this is our this is our dunblane
now that the drama is over the trauma has begun as tasmanians try to come to terms with what few of them could ever have imagined happening in their green and serene island underneath down under
and in what is now the early hours of tuesday morning in tasmania
police have recovered the bodies of two of the man's three hostages
they expect to find the remains of that third hostage in the burnt out rubble at that guest house sometime today
bobbie
john is this expected to have any effect do you think on the gun laws or lack of them is tasmania
that is the subject of hot debate in australia at the moment
it has been addressed by no less than the prime minister in the last twenty four hours
there are certainly going to be a great demand for tougher gun laws in tasmania and perhaps throughout australia
but there is also quite a strong pro gun lobby in australia and in the past politicians here who have sought to toughen gun laws have found that that is not always popular with the majority of the electorate
john raedler reporting to us live from australia thank you
if you drive a car you probably noticed the soaring cost of gasoline
well it's also gotten the attention of the white house
and today as a matter of fact president clinton ordered action aimed at taking the sting out of rising pump prices
c. n. n.'s bob franken has details
the president had to do something
from his point of view what would be worse than skyrocketing gas prices would be getting blamed for them
what president clinton did was to order the energy department to start selling twelve million barrels of oil to increase supplies and bring down prices and he directed energy secretary hazel o'leary to review the causes of the price hike and report back to the white house within forty five days
the president's republican opponent was quick to take credit for forcing action
well i think he's responded to inquiries that i've made and other members have made about repealing the gas tax
currently the national average price for a gallon of gasoline is one dollar and thirty six cents a nickel a gallon higher than two weeks ago a whopping fourteen cents a gallon higher than one year ago
they kind of gouge the price a little bit to make a little more money during that time
then when vacation's over you notice it goes back down again
so it seems to be a pattern you know so if you call that you know price gouging then i think it is
everybody needs gas for their cars these days
in politics outrage like that is called opportunity in this case an opportunity for republicans to attack what they term president clinton's gas tax because it was part of the president's deficit reduction package
should have never been imposed to begin with
i am proud to say i voted against it to begin with and i'd like to get rid of it
republicans see the widespread antagonism about soaring gas prices as their chance to get back at democrats who have been battering them for weeks on the minimum wage
but some democrats believe that the best defense is a good offense
the christians had a better chance against the lions that the american consumer has against the unholy alliance of the big oil companies and newt gingrich and bob dole and the big oil companies
as for getting rid of the gas tax democrats say they'd be willing to discuss it which republicans take as an indication they've struck a nerve
bob franken c. n. n. capitol hill
president clinton today unveiled his latest plan for combating drug use
it's a ten year fifteen billion dollar plan that focuses on teenagers and targets the street drug meth amphetamine often called the poor man's cocaine at a school in miami today mr. clinton urged congress to back the plan not only with words but also with money
to meet these goals we're asking congress as we cut spending and move toward a balanced budget to increase funding for the drug war by nine point three percent
we can't stop drugs if our schools hospitals and communities don't have the tools they need to get the job done
we have to have the support of congress to do this
make no mistake about it this has got to be a bipartisan american non political effort
highlights of the new plan include motivating youngsters to stay away from drugs reducing drug related crime and reducing the costs of illegal drug use relating to health welfare and crime
the plan also aims to beef up drug interdiction efforts and stop drugs at the source
it is no accident that president clinton chose south florida to unveil his new anti drug initiative
this is an election year and florida a key battleground state
as c. n. n.'s john zarrella reports florida's political importance has made it the perfect place for presidents past and present to showcase their drug fighting efforts
even if the message was positive
we are here in miami to announce a new drug strategy
miami was the logical place for president clinton to announce his new anti drug initiatives because after all
miami has dealt with the biggest challenges that drugs present to america
for fifteen years south florida has been the focal point in that overused often hard to define term the war on drugs in the early nineteen eighties then vice president george bush came to miami to launch his own task force on drugs
nearly every day he produced a photo op of seized marijuana and cocaine coke in pullies coke in polls coke in flowers coke in planes coke sniffing dogs a boat faster than the smuggler's boat the coast guard firing on a drug running vessel laden with marijuana
clinton's lead man on drug policy general barry mccaffrey says the president's strategy is different long term
it is a ten year program it is not a war campaign
but there are parallels
ten years ago police had their hands full with a new wave drug called crack cocaine
now it's ruffies and meth amphetamines
meth one the major targets of clinton's initiatives is pouring into the west and southwest united states primarily through mexico
in nineteen eighty nine then president bush delivered a televised message on drugs to seventy thousand schools
presidents don't often get the chance to chance to talk directly to students
clinton chose a school to deliver his anti drug message because drug use is reportedly up among young people
police believe drug use may be starting back up in general because budget cuts turned the drug war into a skirmish
the war on drugs hasn't been much of a war
a lot of the monies that we used to get to work the operations have been taken away from us
if the clinton administration's new ten year plan lasts it will mark a quarter century of drug fighting and by far the most protracted war in u. s. history
john zarrella c. n. n. miami
well anyone who's ever tried to download computer graphics or video over their computer network knows i've never done this it can take forever
i just get fed up and throw the computer out the window but there is a speedier route to the internet if your home is wired for cable
c. n. n.'s greg lefevre explains how to access it
coming though maybe not soon to a computer screen near you the internet at the speed of light
it happens with a modem that plugs not into the telephone system but to the cable t. v. system
it zaps pictures and sound down the internet instantly
it's fast which is very important when you're working with thirty kids
that's a blessing to fifth grade teacher page mcdonald
maybe you should look that one up
when you're trying to download something you need to make an impact and you can't sit there for ten minutes waiting for a picture to draw itself on your screen
the difference is speed
example to bring in a two megabyte file that could be an entire program on a typical modem might take eighteen minutes
with an i. s. d. n. line the hot thing last year about two minutes
but a cable modem dumps it in just two seconds
speed makes new things possible playing back entire video stories not just clips
until people get high speed to the homes the internet will remain a small fad for a small part of the community
the kids are sitting here working and they're able to you know do things as they type them in which is great
most people using modems now this is probably one hundred to one thousand times faster than people's modems
they're in short supply
in palo alto california naturally the cradle of silicon valley they've got them
but nationwide only one in twenty systems can handle the two way communications that cable modems require and only a handful of cable systems are actually on line
cable amplifiers that now sent signals one way to the home must be modified or replaced to transmit both ways
and cable modems cost a lot about four hundred dollars
with manufacturers jumping in like motorola u. s. robotics zenith hewlett packard and comm twenty one availability goes up and prices will likely come down
what they're really good for is if you want to receive audio if you want to receive video products if you want to received multi media
cable operators warn that content is important that the fastest modems in the world will only succeed if the stuff they carry is worth watching
greg lefevre c. n. n. san francisco
so did you get any of that
uh uh
me neither
one more wire i have to worry about
the food and drug administration today approved a new prescription drug to fight obesity
it is the first prescription drug to be approved for use in the u. s. in more than twenty years
and as c. n. n.'s jeff levine reports it's considered a breakthrough for people who are seriously overweight
for years congressman sam gejdenson tried to lose weight to bring his diabetes under control
but he was never really successful until six months ago after he went on a diet drug then available only in europe called redux the trade name for dexfenfluramine
he lost twenty five pounds and has kept it off
but the diet has worked
i mean for the first time in my life i left food on the plate instead of the taste of the food not the hunger driving me to finish my plate at almost every meal
now the food and drug administration has approved redux for use in the united states by patients who are seriously obese that is thirty percent above their desirable weight or who have other risk factors such as high blood pressure or diabetes
it should be available by prescription in june and cost about two dollars and forty cents a day
redux is an appetite suppressant that controls the level of serotonin a chemical messenger in the brain that makes patients feel full after eating less food
it's considered non addictive and is the first obesity drug approved for long term use in the united states
the f. d. a. say in one study redux helped six out of ten patients lose a total of ten percent of their body weight after one year compared to only three out of ten patients who followed the same diet and exercise regime with a dummy pill
but critics fear redux may cause depression in some people
studies have shown animals that went off the drug had depleted levels of serotonin which affects mood
the people that i'm worried about are people who are ten twenty pounds overweight who aren't at serious life and death risk from that degree of obesity or being overweight
the company that makes redux interneuron pharmaceuticals and its distributor wyeth ayerst contend neurological problems are not a big worry
they say the animals studied were given far greater doses of the drug than people get and redux has been safely used in europe
doctors believe patients will be staying on redux for anywhere from three to five years along with a program of exercise and counseling
jeff levine c. n. n. washington
hi everyone i'm jim moret in hollywood
and i'm laurin sydney in new york and jim we're practically twins today
yeah you're right
there is so much showbiz news today so let us get right to the showbuzz
president and chairman of turner broadcasting systems ted turner addressed a crowd of five thousand cable executives monday at the forty fifth annual national cable television association convention in los angeles
turner presented vice president al gore with a special cable ace award recognizing his support for cable television
in return the vice president commended the industry
cable has set the pace for much of what president clinton and i have been trying to accomplish to make television more nourishing for our children and more useful for our democracy
it would be great if the broadcasters follow your lead and since you carry their programs i would invite you to challenge them to do exactly that
late night king jay leno has taken his show to the windy city for the first week of may sweeps
leno will spend all week on location in chicago interviewing some of that city's most famous faces including oprah winfrey
other guests lined up are sharon stone and david schwimmer
leno has been the leader of late night t. v. over david letterman for almost one year but he shrugs off the accolade
hey i'm very glad we're number one again this week
all good we'll keep working hard
but i don't go out there and you know we're the king and white flags
you know it could change at any minute so you just keep doing what you do
this weekend the streets of southern california were lined with barricades and onlookers as the olympic torch began it's eighty four day trek to atlanta georgia for the opening ceremonies on july nineteenth
c. n. n.'s sherri sylvester joined an oscar winning director for his leg of the relay
she recaps the run set to kenny g.'s champion theme written in honor of the nineteen ninety six olympics
the passing of the flame it's a symbolic step toward the opening of the olympic games even as athlete rafer johnson began the ceremony director robert zemeckis was preparing for his role in the relay
i have to test it
it's got all the places that this torch has been already all the cities in europe
isn't this cool
the zemeckis team has set up a base camp at mcdonalds
film producer frank marshall will pass the flame from his torch to the one held by his long time friend
here we are with the flame that's on the one hundred year anniversary of the modern games coming all the way from athens and you know this is the flame
this is the real flame
so it's very emotional
zemeckis has taken the advice of olympic organizers
they said don't put any flammable hair dressing in your hair
and these words from his son alexander
it says go dad
it was while directing forrest gump that zemeckis began running like the character played by tom hanks
i never ran before i started you know getting interested in that character and i started running and since then i mean because when i was developing the character i was realizing that it's a you know he it was spiritual for him you know and that was really neat
and this would prove a spiritual moment for robert zemeckis
it feels great
it's really an honor
it's really a thrill
i had no idea it would be this exciting
unlike film there is no second take and after his shot zemeckis admits there was a blooper of sorts
my torch went out
i heard
but olympians are prepared for anything
they carry the main flame alongside the runners
they had another flame right there though
it was great
they came right in
it's part of history
it's part of ancient history
that's what's really neat
it's like it's history that goes back further than anything i mean as far as spectacle is concerned
ten thousand people will pass the olympic flame through forty two states
it's a fifteen thousand mile journey that could even inspire someone like forrest gump
sherri sylvester c. n. n. los angeles
between winning an oscar as best director for braveheart and having an emergency appendectomy mel gibson has been a bit distracted while working on his next film
his lethal weapon three co star rene russo teams up with gibson once again in ransom which is being shot in new york
mark scheerer visited the set
the day we visited the fifth avenue location where ron howard was shooting scenes for ransom we weren't the only news organization on hand
we were however the only real one
the news vans are props the reporters are actors and mel gibson's character meets the press because his son's been kidnapped
he doesn't say anything to them he just looks at them
why
because he's looking for an answer to an impossible set of questions that he has
i play a character named lonnie hawkins and lonnie hawkins is i am the f. b. i. agent who is in charge of coordinating the effort to get to retrieve mel and renee's son
and this scene is fine
this scene is all this scene i don't know it's been so long since i've been working i don't remember the script
i don't where are we
it doesn't matter whether she approves it or not because she's insane
she thinks she's nanook of the north you see
delroy do you want to see the playback of that scene
do you want to see what we did for it
yeah it's pretty snappy isn't it
yeah it's pretty snappy
for director ron howard who shot much of his last film apollo thirteen in a weightless environment in the back of a jet transport ransom should be a breeze
but gibson was struck with appendicitis and new york was struck with winter storms
no we're not on schedule
you know with mel's appendectomy and a couple of blizzards that have blown through and you know we're a little bit behind
ron howard of course was snubbed by the motion picture academy with no best director nomination for apollo thirteen
if he was ever rankled by that it would have been in march when gibson returned to the ransom set having just won the oscar for directing braveheart
mel comes back to work
right
he starts telling you how this film should be did right
yeah sure
mel i've had to from the beginning really mel has been i think overly respectful
but more than personalities have to mesh smoothly on a movie set
the day after our visit it is announced that the planned summer opening of ransom will be pushed back to the fall
the movie maker is being held hostage to circumstances beyond their control
mark scheerer c. n. n. entertainment news new york
hollywood has brewed up a new movie that takes female bonding to a whole new level
the craft is about friendship high school first love and oh yeah i forgot to tell you witchcraft
but according to the actors it's less a horror film than a tale of power for women even if that power is on the supernatural side
it's the witching hour for neve campbell
most people know her from fox's party of five but campbell has gone from a cult hit t. v. show to a student of the occult in the new film the craft
i believe in spirituality and i believe in energy and i believe that we all have certain kinds of power and i believe that there are a lot of people in the world who don't acknowledge that and we need to find ways to utilize it
in the craft campbell plays one of four high school misfits who become powerful teenage witches
robin tunney plays the lead witch in this coven of school yard spell casters
it's scary but it's different because the acting isn't over the top like that and it's not like everybody's sort of strapped in and it remains very real
it's not a slasher film
it's not a slasher film and we're not running down alleys and like well i do run down an alley
these special effects may be mystifying but the makers of this film tried to brew up a realistic tale of high school sorcery
we had a real witch on the set with us named pat devins who was there to talk to us about the rituals and about witchcraft and to keep it you know real
maybe a little too real
the actors claim that a disgruntled witch put a curse on the film making for some creepy days of shooting
one time when we were out in leo koreo beach which is just outside of los angeles and it was the middle of the night i think it was three o'clock and taking hours to light the set and do you know set up the candles and we'd made this huge circle of candles and
we were doing the waking rituals invoking the spirits
yeah right
it was going to be a ritual and as soon as they said action the tide came up and put all the candles out and they like rolled down the sand and the lights went out at certain times and bats flew over
and one of the actresses got really sick got really sick
it was a really strange
with their newfound knowledge of spells and curses maybe the actors can conjure up a box office hit
and showbiz will reappear right after this
don't go anywhere
as you just saw jean claude van damme's quest for the top spot at the box office was successful
joining us now is our movie analyst martin grove
marty this film marked jean claude's directorial debut
what's the word
jim the word is good surprisingly good
in fact the new york times said that his directorial debut was better than steven siegal
that is high praise
let's go to the number two film the truth about cats and dogs
can twentieth century fox truly be pleased with the opening of this film
they are so pleased at fox they are purring
this was a hit
now they were a little nervous and with cause
after all it's a romantic comedy with no big stars sneak previewed beautifully
you could say the same thing about mrs. winterbourn which opened a week earlier and then went on to open to very soft business and it's off in the second week about fifty percent
so they had their fingers crossed but this one worked out well
now there are two basketball movies playing
what's the word on that
well the word there is yes on sunset park
that's the big score
that's rhea perlman
she plays the basketball coach of a team that's all black and all male and the film is working
the secret there is the soundtrack album out there in the marketplace promoting the movie
celtic pride is the other basketball movie jim and this one is just you know dribbling along at the box office and not really going anywhere
so only one of those two is in the top five that is sunset park
okay
mission impossible is going to kick off the summer season
can that movie do as well as the trailer leads us to believe it will be
i think it's going to be a very very big movie
in fact it could well be the biggest movie of the summer
it certainly will be the biggest widest opening because they already have over three thousand five hundred prints of that movie earmarked for theaters and it's a number that will grow before the film opens may twenty second
so look for very good things from paramount and mission impossible
it's becoming like baseball all these statistics the biggest widest opening for a non holiday film
we're going to have all that
he'll have it all
we'll see you again next week
now to laurin sydney in new york
turning to the music world dozens of the world's top opera singers were in new york city this weekend to perform in tribute to a man who has served them both as mentor and as maestro
james levine is celebrating his twenty fifth anniversary with the metropolitan opera company and as sherry dean reports he will soon embark on a world tour conducting the three tenors
the focus is normally on the singers on the stage rather than on the conductor in the orchestra pit
but saturday night at new york's metropolitan opera house the star of the evening was conductor james levine even though operatic powerhouses ranging from placido domingo to roberto alano and jesse norman were on stage
sixty of the world's greatest opera singers were there to celebrate levine's twenty fifth anniversary with the company
he's somebody that you can always depend on his enthusiasm
his love and his knowledge really bring you bring the best out of you in any performances
he genuinely loves singers
every time i work with him i learn a little bit more about singing and a little bit more about the roles that i'm performing
levine who is now the artistic director of the met has been passionate about music since he was a little boy growing up in cincinnati ohio
i did used to sometimes set up little theatrical things at home with my brother and sister
there is a picture of me keeping time to a score with one of my grandmother's knitting needles
singer grace bumbry played the title role in tosca twenty five years ago at the first performance levine conducted at the met
it was great to have a conductor that you could work with who understood that you had to breath at moments not just that you were just a machine that just went on and on and on
tickets to the sold out gala went for one hundred dollars to one thousand five hundred dollars
the eight hour event was broadcast simultaneously in the u. s. on the p. b. s. series the metropolitan opera presents sponsored by texaco and will eventually be broadcast in europe and japan
maestro levine now prepares to conduct a world tour with the three tenors domingo pavarotti and carreras for which levine will reportedly receive five hundred thousand dollars each concert
what makes james levine worth five hundred thousand dollars a concert
jimmy levine will be full of love and care for the three of us equally you know
the three tenors will begin their tour with their divine maestro levine late june
sherry dean c. n. n. entertainment news new york
talk about scandal one of the main attractions at the ringling brothers barnum and bailey circus this year may not be what she appears to be
we are talking about ariana the human arrow
some media reports have speculated that she's really a man
we sent our undercover reporter bill tush under the big top to get to the truth of the matter
p. t. barnum himself is credited with the phrase there's a sucker born every minute and for well over one hundred years people have been laying down good money to see his strange attractions
the circus bearing the great showman's name continues his tradition
slightly more than a decade ago it was the unicorn that had tongues wagging
doubters said it was merely a goat with a stick on horn
the circus denied it the crowds came
here we go again
ringling brothers barnum and bailey circus presents ariana the human arrow
but ariana is not promoting herself and the circus is only providing a short glimpse and an artist's conception of the attraction shot across the arena from a crossbow
we would like to show you more of ariana's performance and let you maybe decide for yourself but the folks at ringlings asked that we not shoot the human arrow
don't shoot the human arrow
i don't get it either
and wouldn't you know it the shroud of mystery is most likely how the rumor started is she really a he
well that's old fashioned barnum
the truth of the matter is we didn't start the rumor but we are very glad it did because it's been a hoot
it's been a lot of fun and we've had a great deal of attention over it
well we're here aren't we
but nobody thinks it's funnier than the circus folks themselves
you know the answer to that
it's very laughable
it's a good laugh to have
we have a lot of fun at the circus and we're used to hearing and seeing lots of things and although i have to tell you that it took us by surprise it was still immediately funny not only to us but to ariana as well
so ariana is a woman
she certainly is a woman
she is a beautiful woman
although circus ringmaster dinny mcguire has his own theory on how this whole thing started
my feeling is someone misheard the song during the ariana procession where the words are keep your eyes on the sky ariana and i think probably what happened was somebody thought i was singing keep your eye on this guy ariana
whatever the answer old p. t. would be proud and selling tickets
bill tush c. n. n. entertainment news new york
i'm so glad we got that straight
well that's all we have time for
we will see you tomorrow
in new york i'm laurin sydney
and in hollywood i'm jim moret
we leave you now with peter gabriel and friends' performance of in your eyes' from sunday night's v. h. one honors in los angeles
for everyone here at showbiz today thanks for watching
we'll see you next time
we the jury in the above entitled action find the defendant orenthal james simpson not guilty of the crime of murder
whatever you think the o. j. simpson trial was drama or soap opera media circus or democracy at work miscarriage of justice or the american jury system at its best ask the chief architect of the simpson defense your questions and get ready to talk back
good afternoon and welcome
i'm yolanda gaskins in for susan rook
and this of course is talkback live from c. n. n. center in atlanta
now contrary to the old saying our guest today does need an introduction otherwise he'd just be kind of hanging around in the back
so please welcome attorney and author robert shapiro
hello welcome
hi yolanda
thank you
great to see you here in atlanta
thank you for coming
it's great to be here
why don't you have a seat over here
unless you want to walk around with me
i think i'll walk with you
you want to walk around with me
well why would i miss this opportunity
well i i'm not going to touch that
you may not want to after you get some of the questions that we're going to get from some of the folks in the audience
i'm anxiously awaiting all their questions
now you've been on your book tour for
this is about the fourth week
it's been on the new york times best seller list since day one
should we show a picture do you want to do the i'll do the official holding up of the book
hey i like this
here you go
thank you
search for justice
you know let's just get this started because we've got a lot of questions in the audience
i want to first ask you well we've got to get this out of the way
now we know that mr. simpson was acquitted of those two horrible murders
but do you believe that in fact he did not know anything about the who committed those murders
well one of the themes of the book is to try to educate people as to the difference between legal justice and moral justice
we deal with legal justice
and in the courtroom it was clear to me that the verdict was absolutely correct that there was reasonable and real doubt throughout this case on every essential issue
the question you're posing is really more in the moral setting
what really happened at bundy
that is not something that i can give you a definite answer on and i'll tell you why yolanda
i'm listening
i wasn't there you weren't there
the two people who were brutally murdered cannot tell us
and the killer or real killers are the only ones who know
what we deal with as professionals are facts and evidence that are admissible in the courtroom
it's i think it's part of the problem is our perception of what is and what is not justice
that's exactly right
our system of justice is something that has been developed for two hundred years
and we pay a very very high price for that system
and that is that we hope that innocent people will never ever be convicted
the cost is that guilty people will and sometimes do go free
i wanted to we had a question over here from firooz
firooz is from texas
firooz thank you
mr. shapiro it's a pleasure to meet you
yes firooz very nice to meet you
i would like to know the answer to the question that has often been asked that there's two sets of justice in america one for the rich on the one hand that could afford mr. shapiro on the other hand for the poor that by no means can get close to mr. shapiro
what is your idea about that
that's a very very good question and there is some truth to that
the same thing you're from the great state of texas where the greatest heart surgeons in the world are
if you are fortunate to be a wealthy person in texas and you need a heart transplant or a bypass you can go to the best surgeon in the world
if you're a poor person you may have to just go to a h. m. o. plan hospital
or if you're really poor you may not get anything at all
you're going to get letters from h. m. o.s now
it's the same thing in the courtroom
but in america we put much higher expectation and value on the justice system than an individual has
isn't this really a question of what we think justice is
because there's a moral sense
all everybody who watched the trial had an opinion very early on in the trial whether the man was guilty or innocent
and that's kind of a moral response that we had as opposed to a legal response and that's what you're saying
oh that's absolutely it
and it's a spontaneous response
what we're talking about it's very difficult for anybody who was not in the courtroom every single day during the ten months that there was testimony to separate what the evidence really was yolanda that was admissible and that the jury was allowed to weigh from what took place outside the courtroom
right well people kept were so obsessive about this case that a lot of people really felt that they were there and then some of them feel that they could basically practice law now because of it
now let's move on to something else
you are the one who put the get put together the dream team
i want to know some of the factors that went into picking the people that you did
well it was done in many stages
the first stage was the first day after the murders when i was retained by o. j. simpson which was a tuesday
and the initial import of that day was to retain the best experts in the world so we could start our investigation immediately
let me ask you quickly howard weitzman was originally o. j.'s attorney
why was he taken off the case
howard weitzman is a friend of mine is a terrific lawyer
but i disagreed with him early on in allowing o. j. simpson to make his statement to the police
i don't think any client should have after being up all night flying back round trip from l. a. to chicago coming back getting the horrible news that he got would be in any position to have a police interview
but isn't it difficult when you have a client that is as strong willed as a man like o. j. simpson to tell him what to do
it's
i mean you ran into that many many times
it's very difficult
you saw how i handled it
right
i said it's my way or the highway
all right let's take a phone call from grace
grace you're on
what's your question
yes mr. shapiro you said that you were against using the race card
you knew it would probably nullify this black jury
and yet you allowed it to happen
i wonder if you people rehearsed everything
did you know what johnnie cochran was going to do in summation
and if you were against it why didn't you stop it
why didn't judge ito stop it
grace that's a very very good question
throughout the trial i had said that race should not and would not be an issue in the case and it certainly was not the issue
i had a big disagreement with johnnie cochran
his view was that race was an issue in everything in america
but that partially helped win i mean i'm saying partially
well let me finish
go ahead
let me finish the answer if i might yolanda
your question was was the strategy planned at the end in closing arguments
the closing argument was outlined by all the lawyers and we all had some input
but when it came to speaking to the jury lawyers speak from their heart and that's what johnnie cochran did
i happen to tremendously disagree with jury nullification in a homicide case
all right you also had considered when you were putting together the dream team you had considered putting on a black female and you were trying to construct the team so that it would what so that it would get the jury
well just like i have a law
a right kind of mix or what
i have a law firm with eighty five lawyers and we like to have males and females we like to have people from every ethnic background every racial and religious background
same thing in putting a team together
but this is on this particular trial
o. k. the same thing on putting a team together yolanda
i wanted to have a mixed group of people and i felt because i was defending an african american who was accused of killing a caucasian that who better to help me understand what the jury would be focusing on than a female and in this particular case an african american female
but isn't that putting race and gender into it
oh there's no question
but it's not playing a card it's not doing anything that shouldn't be done
the fact that i would like to have a racially mixed law firm is no different than the fact that you might want to have a racially mixed group of photographers who would be shooting this scene
all right
i tell you what we're going to take a break
we're going to come back
we got a lot more questions
everyone almost everyone had their hands up earlier
next we're going to talk to mr. shapiro about marcia clark chris darden and the rest of the prosecution team
we'll be right back
welcome back
our guest today is attorney and author robert shapiro and the title of his book the search for justice
we talked a little bit ago with the beginning of the show about what justice is but you had a lot of questions during the break people talking about what the responsibility is of a defense attorney
i mean you have to admit that you have such a negative image right now
people think you'll do anything anything anything to win
but that's not really
i hope that's not the case and that certainly is not what our legal responsibility is
prosecutors and defense lawyers have obligations
they're both officers of the court
the prosecutors have a duty to see that justice is done
people who represent those accused of crime have an absolute obligation to do so when asked unlike civil cases where you have to believe your cause is right and just
the second thing is we are advocates
we are bound by rules of professional conduct by ethics and responsibilities
we cannot put on perjured testimony nor would we
and we are advocates
our job is to ensure that our client is represented in a way most vigorous to present his side and to show that the prosecution side may have doubts
yes one of the interesting things one of the many interesting things in your book is that you say you don't ask a client whether or not he or she committed the crime it's kind of a
no just the opposite
yes it's the burden you call it the
no it's just the opposite
you do ask them
i always ask
oh i thought you said that you did not ask
i always ask
because it was a burden of knowledge
you don't want to know if they did it
no just the opposite just the opposite
you always ask
and if they say
in fact that's a central theme
yes i did
in the book
they said you say if they did commit the crime then you decide whether or not you're going to represent them
number
first of all very few cases are like the case i just tried which is who is responsible
most cases yolanda are what is it
for example if a producer and a person who is on a show got into an argument and the person who was hosting the show came up to the producer and hit him over the head with a microphone and that person died there may not be any factual dispute as to what happened
now if the person with the microphone had planned in advance or instantly said i'm going to go kill that person i can't take it any more that may be first degree murder
if the producer however said you know we can't stand you any more you are this that and the other thing and made a move towards you that scared you and in self defense you struck out the microphone then it might be considered self defense
so
yes
the actions are not really what's in controversy
well you explain a lot of that in your book
you break that down in a very simplistic way so that we can understand it
let's go to tammy from idaho
tammy has a question
go ahead tammy
yes mr. shapiro i'd like to know how you feel about christopher darden as a prosecuting attorney
because with the whole cast of characters that were involved in this trial i found him to be the most compassionate one and the one that really honestly believed in what he was doing
and he has seemed to have taken a lot more guff than what he should have
well i agree with you
i think chris darden had the most difficult job of any lawyer in the courtroom
he was a person who was viewed with disdain supposedly by members of his community although i don't believe that was really the fact
he was brought in after the jury had already been put into place and many people suggested he was brought in only because he was a black man
so he brought with him a lot of difficult a lot of difficulty in coming to the counsel table
i think he is a very very good prosecutor
he's certainly now a very very angry man as a result of what has happened
i disagree with a lot of the things he has said
i don't believe there was a mountain of evidence
but if indeed as chris says there was a mountain of evidence i think then the responsibility lies with the prosecution not with the jury not with the judge and certainly not with the defense lawyers
you talked about marcia clark numerous times in the book of course and you kept talking about her flirtatious nature
we're going to take a quick break and i want to do a we're going to oh no we don't have to take a break
i want to i want you to tell me about that
you talked about marcia clark and perhaps there was some flirtation going on between she and johnnie cochran
what did you mean by that
well exactly what i said
i mean they were flirting with each other
you know anybody who was in the courtroom saw that and it was patently obvious
and whether it was a strategy on her part to try to disarm johnnie or any other lawyer i don't know but it certainly took place
chris darden also talks about that at length
i mean there was just no question it was happening
all right
let's get a quick question from joe from georgia
joe what's your question
yes mr. shapiro over the last several months several witnesses as well as some jurors have indicated that they did not believe what o. j. the defense that you would put forth and that they had had some misgivings at this point about the actual case
my question to you is given all of that was there any point in your mind that there was any perjured testimony that was going to be uttered by any of the witnesses either for the defense or the prosecution
and if you had ever felt that during the course of the trial did you ever feel compelled to report that to the tribunal
joe talks like a lawyer
that's an excellent excellent question
first of all i won't use the term perjury because that's a legal term
as far as lying absolutely mark fuhrman lied
we knew it as soon as he was sworn in and said his name
there was just no question about it
he had no credibility whatsoever and the prosecution felt that they could somehow embrace mark fuhrman and that the witnesses that we would have would be impeached by the prosecution
what they never ever suspected and what we never believed would happen was that tapes came forward
chris darden in his book says i talked to mark fuhrman i wouldn't call him as a witness
i knew the man wasn't going to tell the truth
and once he testified i knew he was lying so you're absolutely correct lying did take place
all right thanks for your question joe
let's check in and see what's going on on compuserve with frank
yes there's a question here should all jury consultants be banned since only the wealthy can afford jury consultants
that's a very very good question frank
first let me set the record straight
there were two jury consultants in this case one for the defense jo ellen dimitrius and one for the prosecution the person who is credited with being the father of this art mr. don vincent
we chose to have our jury consultant right in front sitting right at the counsel table
the prosecution tried to put mr. vincent back in the audience just as you're sitting here with the jury
and so each side had the advantage
in this case it was essential not that a jury consultant has any special ability to predict how somebody is going to vote in advance but we had a thousand jurors that we had to select from
those jurors filled out questionnaires that were seventy five pages long contained upwards of three hundred fifty questions
and so the jury consultants really worked to put those questionnaires together and to help us in our efforts to selecting as jury
o. k. what we're going to do is we're going to take a quick break and we're going to come back and talk more about the jury and in particular judge ito
we'll talk about that when we come back on talkback live
robert shapiro is our guest today and our topic this segment we're going to talk about judge lance ito and the jury that acquitted o. j. simpson
well you know we had a lot of questions about the jury
let's start with maria from georgia
maria
do you think the consultant for the prosecution did a good job of selecting the jury or was the fact that the jury pool was in downtown l. a. or whatever you call it was that the case or did they ignore the suggestions of the jury consultant
that's a very good question maria
thank you
i don't know what the answer is but immediately when i pointed out that the jury consultant was indeed sitting with the jurors in the courtroom he was never seen again
and the speculation was that marcia clark and bill hodgman who picked the jury felt that they were more adept at doing it than having the jury consultant aid them
as far as the makeup of the jury early on i think it was the common belief that african american women would be very favorable to the prosecution because o. j. simpson was a man who had only dated and was married to a caucasian
he had been married early on to an african american but that was before he gained his fame
and so many people thought that african american females would be pro prosecution jurors and i think that's what marcia clark believed
all right let's take another quick question from yardira
yes i want to know if you believe there was jury tampering
the question yardira is one that is now under investigation
as you know both sixty minutes and dateline have done investigations on the florio bunten letter and based on what they have uncovered if their reports are accurate there certainly is a suspicion that needs to be investigated that the letter that was sent was as letter that was fraudulent
that is being investigated
it is the most serious charge that can be brought against anyone
it threatens the very heart and soul the integrity of the jury system
and if it was an attempt by somebody to manipulate the jury that person or persons should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law and i have no doubt that they will be if that is the case
mr. shapiro let's talk about judge ito
you said in your book that there was a moment when you realized that he had lost control of the case
what was that moment
well judge ito never totally lost control of the case
i think judge ito has not been given credit for what was in my mind the most difficult job anybody had in the courtroom and that was on a day to day basis without knowing in advance what was going to happen with the world watching having to make decisions some of which had never come to a court before
and judge ito's greatest accomplishment was that he was able to hold this jury together
they were on the brink of mutiny
many times
many times
yes
and he was able to allow them to come to court to make their living conditions in their jury service
well it was an extraordinary service for anyone
no juror believed that they would ever have to go in and stay that long
there is no question about it
but by holding this jury together to the point where they were allowed and able to reach as verdict is much to his credit
he was in the courtroom at six thirty every morning
he worked till eight thirty nine o'clock at night
he spent three months including his holiday over the christmas break on getting up to speed on d. n. a.
so you're saying basically the job he did you don't think anyone else could have done a better job
no that's i can't say that
but i think judge ito certainly has room for some criticism
he was seduced by the media like just about everybody in the case
he was indecisive on some of the rulings
but i think overall he should be credited with doing a very very competent and capable job of keeping this jury together and getting a verdict
we're going to talk about that media seduction later on in the show
there's a question from our compuserve prime time forum
nick porter asks was there a conspiracy to get rid of pro defense jurors
you know i don't like to use the term conspiracy unless there was real evidence to support it
clearly there were jurors that the prosecution felt were favorable to the defense and that the defense felt were favorable to the prosecution
and as you know many of the jurors that were initially selected on the panel were removed at one time or another for different reasons
initially chris darden actually went out and personally did an investigation on one of the jurors much to judge ito's wrath since that was totally up to the court to do
didn't he at one point i believe in his book we're going to take a quick break
but i believe at one point he said in his book that as soon as he saw the jury he knew he was sunk
you had a completely different feeling about it
well i don't know how anybody can look at a jury i don't think you can look in this audience and tell how any person would have voted
i certainly don't have that ability
yes
all right we're going to get we're going to take a quick break
i'm sorry to interrupt you
now if you remember nothing else from the trial you remember two things just johnnie's cochran's if you if a glove doesn't fit you must acquit you remember that one
and you also remember this exchange between f. lee bailey and the witness that many say sunk the prosecution's case
you say on your oath that you have not addressed any black person as a nigger or spoken about black people as niggers in the past ten years detective fuhrman
that's what i'm saying sir
so that anyone who comes to this court and quotes you as using that word in dealing with african americans would be a liar would they not detective fuhrman
yes they would
all of them correct
all of them
welcome back to talkback live with our guest attorney robert shapiro
that's right you were a boxer and you applied some of those skills or some of those techniques in the courtroom
no i don't i didn't apply the skills in the courtroom
there's a
what are some of the mental techniques
there's a
that you need
there's a lot in common
actually what boxing helped me with is during the two years when i did nothing else i took no other case i appeared for no other client but three times a week i would box
and that kept me alert focused and was a place to get rid of my hostilities and aggressions
well i bet there were a lot of hostilities and aggressions
we're going to talk a little bit later about how you your family was able to handle all of this
we just before the break we had a clip from mark fuhrman
by the way mark fuhrman has taken the fifth amendment today when he was questioned in a deposition for the civil suit against o. j. simpson
we had we wanted to talk about mark fuhrman and how would you have handled mark fuhrman
would you have even brought him if you were on the prosecution
would you even have brought him to the forefront
would you even have had him as a witness or try well i guess it would have been hard not to
well the as i said early on yolanda the prosecution has an absolute burden to see that justice is done
having read his police file in nineteen eighty three where he said he was unfit to be a policeman and having known his history and propensities and as chris darden says he believed he wasn't being truthful when darden interviewed him to such a degree that chris darden would not call him as a witness i would not have called him as a witness and he should not have been called as a witness
it was interesting how those tapes surfaced
now was the woman who was a screenwriter whose name i forget
laura hart mckinny
thank you
and she was she trying to get a deal
that's why those tapes surfaced
well it's a very complicated story but basically there was a desire for her to have a movie produced
right
based on a screenplay
trying to get a movie deal
she was doing
a lawyer friend of mine in san francisco found out about it
he had become an investigative reporter
i put him in touch with our lead investigator bill pavelic and together they put out a proposal to buy it
did the prosecution have any idea
i don't know
none
all right let's we have another question from manny
mr. shapiro were you aware of the tapes being in existence when mr. fuhrman used the n. word
no we were
totally aware of this or not
number
the mark fuhrman tapes did not come into our possession or even to our knowledge until much after mark fuhrman had testified
we did as a result of mark fuhrman's testimony have several witnesses who called up voluntarily like kathleen bell who said that they had unfortunate experiences with mark fuhrman and they'd be willing to testify
marcia clark as you remember threatened those witnesses with revealing their past histories and impeaching them severely and that probably would have happened but for the laura hart mckinny tapes
and even when those came forward you saw christopher darden try to impeach laura hart mckinny whose only job there was to say it was mark fuhrman's voice and his words
all right let's talk about the glove the infamous trying on of the gloves
you're a boxer
you tried those gloves on first didn't you
to my knowledge i was the only lawyer ever to try on the gloves and i tried them on right in front of chris darden and cheri lewis at a recess
that was after chris darden approached the bench and said he wanted o. j. to try them on
we objected
at the recess the gloves were brought out
they were put on a table
and i asked if i could examine them they said sure but make sure you put on those rubber gloves which was the instruction of the prosecutors who were in charge of the evidence
i put on the rubber gloves and i slipped on the glove
and the glove was a little large in the fingers and a little wide in the wrist
and as you can see i have a average size hand
i took it off immediately
i turned to johnnie
i said try on the glove and i went back to the lockup
i met with o. j. right in front of the bailiff and i said let me see your hand and his hand is enormous
and i said when we go back out the chris darden is going to make a motion to have you try on those gloves
we're going to object but the judge is going to let it happen
i want you to walk in front of that jury like you're carrying the olympic torch which is significant that we're here in atlanta and hold your hand up and pull and tug on that glove as hard as you can because the glove will not fit and it didn't
all right we're going to take a quick break
we're seeing this glove not fitting or what some people some people thought it fit some people didn't
people still
nobody
people are still arguing about this
there was not one person in the courtroom who saw that that i have talked to including the most skeptical pro prosecution reporters who felt it fit
and in fact two of those reporters who were publicly very pro prosecution wrote down the same words at the same time the case is over
all right
thank you for that
all right when we come back our next subject is well let's talk about the media and how the media played a role in this
and we'll also talk about mr. shapiro's personal life trying to get it back to normal after all of this the simpson trial
stay with us we'll be right back
all right does hearing that music give you the willies
i mean that was the music that we played all during the trial
how about the media and its treatment of you and what was happening with the trial
well you know i didn't pay a lot of attention on a day by day basis as to what was going on
we did keep archives and i would look at it periodically only to see how the public was reacting and to see how that would help us in our presentation to make sure the jury was getting what we were trying to portray
that was a pretty big job
was it
a pretty big job having people i understand you hired about what three or four people full time
we had yes we had a full time staff to
to to just
keep archives
look at those all the video and all of the print
what was the most shocking thing that you read something that you read in the media in print that you just
oh i wouldn't even
you said how on earth could they have possibly come up with this
i wouldn't go into that because you saw cash for trash unequaled in this case about everyone about the prosecutors about the defense lawyers about the judge
it was just appalling on many levels
all right
we had a question here from rachel
where are you rachel
do you think the public was involved in this case too much
do i think the public was involved rachel
no i think for the first time in american history the public got to see a courtroom as it really is blemishes and all
before all you had to rely on was television shows that would depict lawyers in trials or movies that would many times have great exaggerations
so i think it's important for the public to see one of the most important aspects of government at work
but is this really
and that is our system of justice
is this really the way it is
most cases are not like this
this is such an unusual circumstance
people are not behaving like this
as a couple of people have talked about this kind of money is not being spent on most cases
in fact most cases are what plea bargained aren't they
well of course but ninety five percent of cases that are brought result in guilty verdicts and about ninety percent in guilty pleas
but when you have a trial the basic elements of a trial are always the same whether it be a misdemeanor petty theft or a murder
the burdens of proof are the same the roles of the advocates are the same
and so this was a lesson overall not in the typical case because this wasn't but in procedure how things really work
what about people who became obsessed with this people who you say yourself in the book that people still come up to you and they holler guilty at you or they holler things at you
did a lot of people just really became obsessed with this case
well
why
why do you think that happened
i don't know it's one of the things that i'm trying to talk about as i tour the country and talk to students why the overwhelming interest number one
but more importantly i think the overwhelming interest is because this really may not have been the trial of the century but it certainly was the media event of the century
yes i think you're right
and what i'm really concerned with is why there is such a division in this country along racial lines why african americans predominantly will accept this verdict and why caucasian americans in large numbers reject this verdict
we all heard the same evidence
why is it that we have such a diversity of opinion
and i think if we can analyze that and learn from it we can learn an important lesson for all of us
all right i'm going to answer that for you
i think i have a some ideas on that
but let's take a call from alex in california
alex
yes
go ahead with your question
well i'd like to ask mr. fuhrman
mr. fuhrman's not here today
mr. fuhrman's
i'm sorry i'm sorry i'm sorry
mr. fuhrman's giving his deposition
mr. shapiro
mr. fuhrman
sorry please forgive me mr. shapiro
your question is about fuhrman
that's o. k. i'm sorry i didn't mean to embarrass you
no no yes
no actually my question is with all the media involvement from everything from the infamous highway bronco chase to the verdict itself does he feel that the media made his job any more difficult
and also what effect does he feel that the presence of cameras in the courtroom had on the behavior of the jury the witnesses both teams of lawyers and even judge ito
all that question and we've only got about fifteen seconds
well i'll answer it quickly
the effect it had on me was i sat at the end of the table so the camera couldn't get this
vanity in the courtroom
well everyone was well dressed everyone was very aware of the presence of the cameras
we'll talk about that
we'll take a quick break and then we'll come back and talk about a little bit more of this
well the questions continue here in our studio for robert shapiro
we had let's start with john here
john go ahead
mr. shapiro you've been i don't know if you've known o. j. before the trial but since you were involved in the defense and also in the ten months of the trial you've gotten to know him i would say very intimately now
have you still continue a either a social or professional contact with him
john that's a very interesting question
i did know o. j. simpson just as an acquaintance in los angeles
my wife linelle who is here is the president of a charity for prado willy
and one year o. j. simpson was the auctioneer although i had never called him on the phone we had never been out to dinner or socialized
i view my relationship with my clients as a professional relationship one in which i'm not there to be my client's friend i'm not there for him to like me or for me to like him
i'm there to give him the best legal advice i can and to do my job as vigorously within the rules of professional conduct as i can
after the case he has a civil case which you know i'm not a part of now
i wrote this book i'm on a book tour
and i don't imagine our relationship will be any different now than it was really before i took the case
did you get that john
why did you write this book
it's interesting it looks like you kept a daily diary on everything that was happening in order to get everything just right
well
what was your motivation to write this book in the first place
i wrote the book for several reasons
first people were always asking me the same questions about the law
how do you defend people who may be guilty
how do you sleep at night
what really is the role of a lawyer in our society
i wanted to address those points
second i wanted to talk about what my life was like for two years the effect it had on my family on my children
there were numerous rumors if not outright lies that were being said about us that were very hurtful to my family to my wife in particular and to my children
and i wanted to give it the perspective that i believe is correct
and finally i wanted to take the reader behind the scenes
i was the only lawyer who was there from day one
and with all the speculation that had been taking place i knew exactly what took place
and within the rules of professional conduct without violating any privileges i wanted to share those experiences
do you like being in the spotlight
as opposed to being the celebrity lawyer who represents just celebrities you yourself become a celebrity
well you know there are up sides and down sides as i'm sure anybody who is in public life would imagine
it is really nice on this book tour traveling the country to meet students to meet people who followed the trial who have questions about the fourth amendment who will come up to me and say you know i don't agree with the verdict but i think you were a decent guy and did a good job on the other hand you do forfeit all of your privacy
so there's a cost to pay like everything
all right
quickly we have sherry in california fax this in
knowing that what you know now if the case were presented to you today would you take it all over again
would i take the case sherry
would you take it all over again
you know i have to
just quickly
i have to answer that on two ways
i have to ask our attorney to give me a yes and a no answer because we've got just seconds left
can't be done
i knew it i knew it
all right thank you so much for joining us here today
that's our final word
but if experience means anything i think it's safe to say we will be far away long away from hearing the last about this case
and it just doesn't seem to want to go away
thanks again to attorney robert shapiro for submitting to all this interactive cross examination today
coming up next inside politics pollster gordon block examines the nationwide support or lack of it for a third political party
join us at ten eastern tonight for our on line conference and be here again tomorrow for talkback live
thanks for joining us today
i'll see you then
see you tomorrow
search for justice a defense attorney's brief on the o. j. simpson case by robert l. shapiro available in bookstores
william colby a man who once headed up the nation's central intelligence agency is missing and now presumed dead
in the morning teams will resume their search of the area near his maryland vacation home on the wicomico river where they believe he went canoeing this past weekend
c. n. n.'s carl rochelle has more
the green colored canoe used by william colby sits on the grass in front of his waterfront home sparse evidence to the fate of the former c. i. a. director
it was found sunday night about four hundred yards downstream partially filled with water
there were no paddles and no life preservers
divers are searching the waters near here for his body
right now we are viewing it as an accident but i will not rule out foul play
you never rule that out until we finally locate the individual and get an autopsy done
but right now it is being considered as an accident a boating accident
by mid afternoon monday colby's wife sally had flown in from texas where she had been visiting her mother
mrs. colby went out with searchers to show them the canoe routes that were her husband's favorites
that is where they are concentrating the search
they just paddle around the creek here or paddle up that way some but never gone very long that many hours though
neighbors became concerned when they noticed colby who was director of the c. i. a. from nineteen seventy three to seventy six had not left for washington sunday evening as he usually did
they went to his home found the radio and computer still on but no colby
they looked around he wasn't around they walked out to a pier where the canoe is kept that mr. colby was adamant in canoeing
they saw the canoe
there is also a ladder which he uses to put down over the side of the pier to get into the canoe
the ladder was down the canoe was gone
divers are concentrating their search in the waters near the colby home but they say conditions are tough
it's a black water search
there's no visibility in any of the waters in charles county so it's all done by feel
colby had talked with his wife by phone around seven saturday evening
authorities say he indicated to her that he had had a busy day and was tired
they say they believe he went out in his canoe shortly after that conversation so he may have been missing for more than a day before the alert was sounded
carl rochelle c. n. n. cobb island maryland
well cable television is doing very well thank you
with deregulation on the way many rates on the increase and friends in high places the kings of cable have a lot to crow about
c. n. n.'s paul vercammen reports from the forty fifth annual cable t. v. convention
this is the pep rally better known as the national cable television association convention
vice president al gore's appearance here indicates how influential the cable industry non network t. v. has become
one of the earliest cable revolutionaries incoming n. c. t. a. chairman ted turner handed the vice president a telegenic show of appreciation a cable ace award
for best documentary slide presentation by a vice president albert gore junior executive producer vice president of the united states
gore in turn gave cable television a pat on the back for striving to curb t. v. violence and for working to increase educational programming
then the vice president took a swing at republican presidential challenger bob dole and house speaker newt gingrich
for example where is newt
or to borrow the title of that bill murray richard dreyfuss movie what about bob
how can you lament murder and mayhem in movies you've never seen and then turn around and vigorously oppose the v. chip and do nothing to improve the television our children watch every day
but it took bipartisan support to pass the new telecommunications law that's creating new business ventures for cable companies
so they're buzzing about the future here about logging onto the internet or making telephone calls through the same wire that sends t. v. to the sixty three million u. s. cable customers
true all the emerging technology in the cable industry will provide lucrative and new opportunities for the companies involved
but what most viewers simply want to know is does change mean that their bills will go up
the average cable bill figuring in some pay services like h. b. o. is thirty dollars and fifty cents
the n. c. t. a. president vows cable t. v. bills will hold and service will go up
our customer service is going to get better
we're going to have to be more responsive to our customers' interests in programming
the consumers are going to win here
consumers are supposed to get more for their money and that's the whole idea of competition
the competition is just under way a contest sure to reach dizzying heights for the cable business
paul vercammen c. n. n. los angeles
president clinton's new anti drug effort is our focus tonight on ask c. n. n.
the person responsible for spearheading the administration's strategy is retire four star general and white house drug policy director barry mccaffrey who joins us now from washington to talk about the president's plan and its implementation
general mccaffrey thanks very much for joining us
a lot of republicans are looking at this announcement today other critics are saying it's about time are you seeing a lot politics being read into the timing of this announcement
well i don't think so
our business today was to unveil the national drug strategy
so we put it out to gain the attention of the american people and really to underscore our absolute commitment to engaging on a ten year basis in a systemic fashion this enormous challenge to america
so that was the purpose today
well i know some people might be thinking who better to lead the so called war on drugs than a decorated war hero and yet this is a much more complex problem i would presume than leading your famous left hook advance during the gulf war because it's very multi leveled
and i understand you're not very comfortable with the war metaphor
a lot of the military metaphors being thrown into this whole picture
well i think you're right
the metaphor war on drugs' has vivid language and in many ways it captures the imagination but some of us believe it's inadequate to really address the complex phenomena we're talking about
so i have offered for consideration the notion of cancer being somewhat more relevant to what we're dealing with a problem in which you not only have to address the root cause but also deal with the pain a holistic approach something where we're going to have to involve the entire family
so that's the metaphor i would suggest we may want to look at
well another part of the cancer metaphor that you've discussed you get into a lot of peripheral problems that can result from drug usage in terms of its impact on the family violent crime domestic abuse property damage and so on
what in the overall package that has been introduced today will begin at the root and then spread from there in terms of trying to do something about all of this
well i think you're exactly right
in many ways this drug issue is the most fundamental problem facing america
you can trace it in any direction you wish and find that it's twenty billion dollars in the health care system
it's a third of the aids cases
it's a substantial amount of the million americans we have in prison
it's a cause of spouse abuse of child disruption
so we think it's at the root of a lot our social challenges
the strategy we propose today suggests that you have to have a component system
you can't either do drug treatment or drug prevention
you can't decide whether or not you wish to confront drugs in burma peru bolivia or do drug education for children
so what we say is you need a coherent approach and you've got to stay at it for the better part of ten years
well congress is going to be asked for about fifteen point one billion dollars over the course of the next ten years
how is that money going to be allocated
what do you see as being the primary priorities essentially
well we've laid the ninety seven budget in front of congress
tomorrow or wednesday i'll go down to the senate and senator hatch and senator biden will give us their own viewpoint on how the strategy seems to them
we've also got in front of the house appropriations committee obviously this fifteen dollar billion package
and this summer we'll have to go down and make the case in a credible manner for how we've laid out the resources
there's about a nine percent increase over last year's enacted budget
but there's significant increases for example about a twenty five percent increase on resources to protect our two thousand mile border with mexico
and another very substantial increase about twenty five percent to go after the source country operations on drugs
so all in all we think it's a pretty balanced and sensible package
well as you know we've asked our viewer to join us and be part of this conversation regarding the again the so called war on drugs
we have a viewer who's holding on the line from massachusetts
what's your question or comment
yeah thanks
what i'm curious to know is what do you expect from the american people as far as aiding in this fight against drugs
and if you could have it as far as the american people do their part what are you looking for us to do
well i think you make a fundamental point right up front
at the end of the day this problem isn't being solved in washington d. c.
i've spent the last seven weeks travelling around the country and finding these enormously effective operations of pride of the task people of the dare program which is involved with thirty three million children
so what i would suggest is that the parents of america the schoolteachers the coaches the local law enforcement officers the religious leaders are where this struggle is going to be engaged and changed
it's a very good point you make because i've noticed even with drug prevention programs and education programs that i became familiar with up in canada that it was very much of a multi leveled approach where you brought in people at the grassroots level in the community the parents the clerical community and so on the schools the local and provincial or national governments
but it was also essential to bring in the media and law enforcement as well
absolutely
you know you make a good point
at the end of the day first of all we got to remind ourselves that most young people aren't using drugs now
the overwhelming majority of them eighty percent do not abuse alcohol nor drugs
what we're talking about is a doubling in the rate of drug use in general and we're seeing it start now as early as the sixth grade
so parents the people who are most credible in the minds of young people are the one that are going to have to carry the message
we have another caller on the line from georgia
how do you feel about youngsters as young as the sixth grade now getting into drug use
yes joe mccutcheon l. and j.
barry my question is wouldn't tougher drug sentences help the drug problem tremendously
well you know i think i probably need to study the question more than i have yet
but i will underscore to you that there are a million americans in prison at the state and local level
there are one hundred thousand in prison at the federal system
well as a matter of fact fifty five percent of the fifteen point one billion dollars that you're asking for is going to prisons and law enforcement
well that's true
what i want to suggest is that neither drug education nor prevention nor treatment programs will work unless we have a vigorous law enforcement effort
we've got to have the police uphold the laws of the country
but having said that it's clear to me we will not arrest our way out of this problem
general barry mccaffrey i'm afraid we have run out of time but i know our viewers wish you well with your efforts
we thank you for joining us and we thank our callers for joining us as well
thanks very much
glad to be part of the show
well the olympic torch is on its way to the ninety six games in atlanta and the excitement is growing
so much so in fact it's spreading now to one dormitory at a chicago university and there's reason for some caution as well
lisa price tells us why
it's track practice at chicago's depaul university and pedestrians inside alumni hall must proceed with caution
there's no indoor track at depaul only these shock absorbent corridors which take a daily pounding from six foot five two hundred pound senior dave dopek
well when people see me coming around the corner they kind of get a little scared and see their life flash because if i can't stop we're both going to be hurt for a long time
collisions have been known to happen
now red lights warn university personnel to steer clear of the speeding sprinter who may well be on course for an olympic medal
we're talking about three to four tenths of a second that he's going to have to take off of his time to make the u. s. team
an athlete of little acclaim until he came to depaul dopek surprised more than a few when he won the nineteen ninety five n. c. a. a. indoor two hundred meters giving depaul its first and only national championship in any sport
i knew i had some talent but i didn't you know at that point one didn't know that i was you know in four years going to be the national champ
he hasn't rest yet since i since like the summer two summers ago he hasn't rest yet
he's always been running
dopek is trying to run the two hundred meters in less than twenty seconds
even if it's nineteen ninety nine we're definitely going to have to run that fast to sneak in
but with his hair
it's a cinnaburst color
and the nike swoosh dopek isn't used to sneaking his way anywhere
that includes the road to atlanta
everyone around me my fiancee my mother my family they're all going to be very excited and go you made the team like i'm the type of person that if i don't if i make the team that's just another step
you know now that i've made it i have to place
with that goal in mind dopek hopes to cross the finish line in atlanta with a bit more ease than he does inside of depaul's alumni hall
lisa price for c. n. n. chicago
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
it is part of the job description for being a teenager that you don't agree with everything your parents do and say but there are times when those disagreements concern more than just staying out late or being allowed to watch television
as part of our teen diary series we gave a tape recorder to amanda a teenager growing up in queens new york
this is her story
we're fiending
okay
open up that door girls
we need a light unless you've got one
what about your mom
what about her
are you going to smoke this rotten cigarette
i know it's rotten
who has that cigarette
maine
give it to me
my name is amanda and i'm seventeen years old
i live in queens
is it bad
hell yes
oh you do
let me try it let me try it
oh god
it is huh
fridays and saturday nights we just drive around like a bunch of low lives looking for things to do
who are these people
anybody you know
number
no
people think i'm a little on the weird side but i like it on the weird side
basically i i wear like a cross between skeeter clothes and like industrial gothic style
i think it's a neat combination
my parents think i should dress more feminine but what do they know right
they grew up back in ancient times
eleven fifty eight and we still haven't found something to do
we're getting kind of desperate
yeah
i guess in a way i've always known that i was bisexual
just like when i was in the first grade and i used to live like in my old house down on my grandmother's block now
all the kids used to be friends and we always used to go into the backyards and like play these little games
and i remember one day we were playing a game that was kind of like sleeping beauty where and like the prettiest girl on the block fell asleep on a picnic bench and uh you know somebody had to go and like wake her up to like kiss her and revive her and it would always be you know one of the boys
and i always felt like like i i wanted to go and revive her
rotary phone
hello
dawn
whatcha doing
i've been going out with dawn for two years and five months now
we've known each other for practically three years and i am totally madly head over heels in love with her
i'll probably come and get you after i'm done okay
all right
all right
bye bye
bye
might go see my little baby my girlfriend
i didn't get a chance to describe her yet so i'm going to do it now
she has long black hair that goes down to around the middle of her back
she has brown eyes
you know how they always say that there's one particular thing that that attracts you to somebody one thing that stands out that you can grab onto and just be totally attracted to that person and about dawn it's it's her voice
you can just you can fall in love with her just by just by listening to her voice
yeah
that's my mother making coffee
during the school week it's pretty much boring around my house
it's a tuesday night and the television's on
everybody just sits around and does their homework you know regular family life i mean at least for me
i don't know too much about other families
excuse me
i burp like a fanatic
my mother's always yelling at me how are you supposed to find a man there we are again how are we supposed to find a man
i tell her i'm like i'm not interested in men you know and she just like she's like okay whatever
my parents my parents know that i'm that i'm bisexual but they don't talk about it much you know
my father my father doesn't really talk much at all
my mother on the other hand when when i first told her and uh she reacted totally crazy
it was all against my growing up beliefs
anyone who is gay or is lesbian is considered sick wasn't accepted in the catholic church at all
it just it wasn't accepted so i've grown up with that concept all my life so you hear that your that you wouldn't that blow your mind
but i mean now in like the twentieth century where it's like really common to hear that somebody is gay and it's like all over the place
well i think
well
you make it common but it shouldn't be common
it's not natural and i've mentioned that to you several times that is not what god intended
i know in today's world you hear all kinds of t. v. programs saying oh this is it that's it that still doesn't make it right
it does it makes it right if you feel and you don't know this but how come when i was like younger i felt this way
all girls feel that way
since i was in first grade
yes
little girls feel that way all the time
you felt that way too
yes
yes
that's that's common
how do you feel about it dad
about what
how do you feel about me
fine
what about it
sexuality wise
oh
you're you're only seventeen years old
you're you're not definite
you're not formed in your ways
someone that's seventeen does not know what is at the other end of the line anyway
how do you know
there's just not enough of life that you've seen
you haven't seen enough you haven't done enough
you have not lived
well over two years and and five months have gone by and
i think that if a good fella came by and really treated you right your mind will switch
that's what i believe
my mind will switch
so it's all in my mind
it is
it's all in your mind right now
you just don't say well this is how i feel and this is how i'm going to be for the rest of my life
i'm not saying that's how i'm going to be for the rest of my life and i'm not saying that i'm not going to have sex with a guy
i'm saying that i do i want to go and have sex with a guy
it's not happened yet
well i hope not
no it's not but i mean i'm going to
i'm not going to like deny myself of that
well that's what i said
don't deny yourself of that
and you may find when you do that that your whole outlook may change
it's just not like oh this is somebody's decision they still they don't really know what they want right now
there's guys i mean i've been out with guys while i've been going out with dawn
dawn's been out with guys while she's been going out with me
i mean we we're so like we're really close and there's like a love there
more from me towards her than her towards me and it you know what i mean
mmm mm
but we're with each other you know
well maybe that's just a good friendship
you would love friends
yeah but i don't do what i do with dawn with friends
do you know what i mean
you don't do what you do with dad with friends you know
my parents just think that this is like a phase like when you know the guys used to get the earrings or when you used to wear pony ponytails when i was little
that was a phase to them
they think that this is phase but i don't think it's a phase
i think this is me
i don't know what to say
that's the way i feel and it doesn't really bother me
it doesn't bother me
oh is this this oh i love this song
everybody does
did you see the video
yes
the video is cool too
no matter what anybody is i don't care i don't care if you're like half horse half fish you're proud of what you are you know
my parents don't dislike me they just don't agree with me
they just don't think that it's natural which i i understand you know
i see their point
they grew up in a totally different time and that's fine
but they're getting used to it you know and they're going to have to get used to it because pretty soon when i bring my wife over to their house to eat dinner you know with my kids they're just going to be like okay fine you know
that's how it's going to be
this story was written and recorded by amanda and produced by joe richman for the series teenage diaries'
this is all things considered i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
authorities in australia expect within twelve hours to charge the man believed to be responsible for the country's worst mass shooting this century
he is martin bryant
he reportedly does not have a criminal record but does have a history of mental illness and is currently under police guard at the same hospital where many of his victims are being treated
as trent o'keefe reports details of the killer's background are only now emerging
neighbors of martin bryant give varying accounts of the alleged mass killer some describing him as a quiet sort of person others saying he often slept all day wandered the streets at night and occasionally threatened to kill people
and while police say bryant aged in his twenties is a known schizophrenic some doctors dispute this saying his alleged actions aren't in line with what you'd expect of someone with that disorder
in nineteen horrific hours the small tourist hamlet in southern tasmania became a killing field with more than thirty people dead and nineteen injured five of them critically
among those killed were children and the elderly
police say bryant was armed with two military style semi automatic weapons and more than enough ammunition to rain terror on what was otherwise a quiet day at tasmania's most popular tourist destination
it began when he drove to port arthur from his home in nearly hobart
his first stop was a popular cafe
a witness said bryant made a comment about the lack of japanese tourists and white anglo saxon protestants before wandering into the cafe and firing randomly into the crowd
that incident alone left twenty dead
their bodies remain where they fell awaiting forensic tests tuesday
from there he drove to a nearby hotel shooting at patrons vehicles and passers by
eyewitness milo reganovic thought there was no way he'd escape the carnage
i grabbed my youngest daughter and i you know it was a and i was running like hell
i was crouched and i was just looking through the car windows to see which way he's going and he was following us
i thought i was dead
there's no way to hide nothing to do
i thought i was dead
among the gunman's victims was a mother and two daughters aged three and six
a local policeman was among the first to arrive at the scene of those killings
at this location police came across the body of a woman and three year old daughter lying on the roadway and the body of the six year old daughter was behind the tree
it's our understanding that the mother was carrying the three year old baby when they were both shot and the six year old ran away trying to escape and was shot in the process
by this stage police said bryant had taken a hostage who he'd locked in the trunk of a stolen car before driving it two miles to a rural guest house
once there he forced the man inside and took two other people hostage
police allege bryant then opened fire at helicopters flying the wounded to the hospital
for almost eighteen hours the man remained holed up in the house as more than two hundred police supported by reinforcements from the mainland surrounded the property
negotiations broke down when the battery in a mobile phone died
police continued to pour into the area but believing the man had a night scope they kept their distance
two hours after daylight the top section of the guest house was set alight allegedly by bryant
as smoke and flames billowed from the property he emerged unarmed with his clothing on fire
police and paramedics went to his assistance and then transferred him to hobart hospital where he remains under heavy police guard which according to police is for his own safety
police say the hostages either died in the blaze or were killed during the standoff
among those injured in the mass shooting were an unnamed american from washington state a canadian employed by the canadian high commission in canberra and his wife
four bodies are yet to be positively identified
the remainder of the victims are australians many of whom were on vacation from the mainland
police spokesman jack johnson said there was only one word to describe the incident
i think carnage is the simple way to describe it
the incident has prompted calls for a tightening of tasmania's comparatively lax gun laws with prime minister howard suggesting a national set of laws enforceable in all states and territories
i will do everything humanly possible and the federal government will do everything humanly possible to get an effective tightening of the gun control situation in this country
prime minister howard has brought forward a meeting of australia's police ministers originally scheduled for july
he wants the laws changed as quickly as possible
for national public radio this is trent o'keefe in sydney
yesterday secretary of defense william perry and israeli prime minister shimon peres signed an agreement to improve israel's ability to defend against rocket attacks
one provision of that agreement the pentagon will provide twenty five million dollars in nineteen ninety seven to accelerate development of the nautilus a laser weapon designed to shoot down incoming missiles
the technology has been tested in new mexico against one hundred twenty millimeter rockets rockets like the katyushas fired at israel by hezbollah guerrillas this month
john donnelly is a reporter for defense week magazine
he specializes in missile defense systems and he describes how the nautilus is meant to work
it's a chemical laser
it's deuterium fluoride and it basically it points it uses a mirror basically to point and shoot it down
essentially what it is is taking one form of energy and turning it into another taking the chemicals and turning it into light and heat
and i gather from your article in defense week that it is effectively eating away at the outside of the rocket in flight
it's destroying the surface of the rocket
yes yes that's right
and then exploding it
yes essentially
there was one test in new mexico in february
i think they shot down two rockets yes
do we know out of how many tries they shot down two rockets or just that they shot down two rockets
all i know is two rockets yes
could have been any number of attempts
the people whom you interviewed for your story about this system expressed some skepticism to you about laser weapons
why
what's the problem with laser weapons
well first of all the number three official in the pentagon paul kaminski told me that while they may be a good idea for israel what we think about it deep down is perhaps indicated by how little we have funded it
the army in fact has never asked for money for this program
every single dollar that's been provided to it has come from congressional add ons many of them pushed by new mexico lawmakers which doesn't automatically mean it's a bad idea
but it indicates the extent of the army's interest
but this is actually a pet project of new mexico legislators of both parties indeed
yes there's a facility at white sands missile range in new mexico called the higher energy laser test facility or helstef and they defend projects that go on there
the skepticism was essentially to boil it down that if lasers worked very well in a real situation we would see them deployed now and we don't
what are some of the problems associated with lasers
well the main problem has been keeping the beam together essentially traveling through space especially at low levels in the atmosphere when there's a great deal of turbulence where there's aerosol dust
in the case of the navy they haven't been able to use them mainly because of spray coming off the sea
a sandstorm in the desert could be a problem
and one of the big problems is clouds
they just cannot penetrate clouds
from what you've described so far this sounds like a well a better political sound bite for the israelis to say there's this weapon coming that could shoot katyushas out of the sky sometime soon then a real hard and fast asset to the israeli defense forces
that's right and i don't think that point has really been very clear in most of the popular press accounts of the story
it says yes we share your concern
we would like to be able to stop this
we have a promising idea and we're going to put a little money into it to see if it can bear fruit
well john thank you very much for talking with us
thank you
john donnelly is a reporter for defense week magazine
in southern lebanon the cease fire that went into effect saturday morning has allowed displaced villagers to return to their homes
now they face the difficult job of cleaning up the rubble left by sixteen days of israeli shelling
jennifer griffin spoke to people in southern lebanon and reports that many of them doubt the cease fire will last
at the happy land amusement park lebanese children are eating cotton candy and riding roller coasters
a few weeks ago they were huddled in their apartments too frightened to go outside and israeli gunboats were shelling this coastal town
today they feel safe enough to play in the sun
not far from this park in the village of zibdin people are trying to piece together their lives in the aftermath of the israeli bombing though many are unsure how long the present cease fire will last
emed kubasi's supermarket was heavily damaged
but it has already reopened
kubasi spent most of lebanon's seventeen year civil war in england
he returned six years ago after the war ended because he thought the fighting was over
he was wrong
when asked whether he thought this cease fire between hezbollah and israel would last he simply laughed
well i don't know
just a single cease fire won't last unless they have a proper peace between israel and lebanon
there are going to be more skirmishes but i don't know whether it would be the same as it has been now
i hope it will last
the last one lasted two years
i wonder how long this will last
the lebanese people are used to war
even before this latest fighting rockets and shells were exchanged every few days near villages like zibdin
this was not the first time that israel sent warplanes into southern lebanon but some say it was among the worst
down the street from kubasi's supermarket several men stand in front of their gutted shops and survey the damage
the shops caught fire when an israeli rocket landed near them
jamal isa says he named his shop after his brother gazi
gazi died in nineteen seventy five in another skirmish with the israelis
isa believes there is only one way to stop the dying israel must withdraw from southern lebanon
the cease fire is working now not forever
there is another the israeli all withdraw from the south of lebanon then we'll get our rights and there is no problem after
few lebanese really believe this cease fire will hold
they say hezbollah will continue its activities and many of them support the guerrillas
both isa and kubasi who owns the supermarket say they are getting help from hezbollah to rebuild and they like many lebanese say hezbollah will continue its struggle against israel
i cannot stop them
no one can stop them
everyone is looking after his own interests
now the lebanese are primarily interested in getting help to restart their lives though the shadow of the war with israel remains
they are happy the fighting has stopped if only temporarily and that their children can once again enjoy a day playing near the beach
for national public radio i'm jennifer griffin in beirut
it's all things considered i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
an investigation by the boston globe into the selection and approval of foster parents turned up a shocking fact
over the past two years the massachusetts department of social services granted at least one hundred fifteen waivers so that people with criminal convictions could provide long term care for other people's children
last week the department changed the regulations providing a list of crimes that would trigger automatic disqualifications
reporter david armstrong of the globe found that in nineteen ninety four and nineteen ninety five there were wife beaters child abusers drug dealers armed robbers and kidnappers among those who've received waivers to become parents
well the point of the investigation was to answer the question what kind of background do foster parents have in massachusetts
and we were prompted to ask the question by a case last year where a foster father was accused of molesting five boys in his care
and we set out to see if this was just an isolated event or if there were other people in the system who might be a problem
these are cases in which the department of social services discovers that somebody who is applying to be a foster parent has a criminal record but they decide to waive their objection to that and let them be one
that's correct
ordinarily if someone had a criminal record it might cause them not to become a foster parent
so there is a process or at least there was until today where they could waive that record if you will and allow them to become a foster parent
what sorts of criminal records were they permitting people to become foster parents with
well we found people who were convicted drug dealers habitual drunk drivers wife beaters kidnappers armed robbers child abusers all sorts of violent offenders
you name it we found them
now it doesn't take a very rarefied sensibility to be to see something wrong here
why were people at the department of social services looking past these records and granting waivers
what's the point
well two things
one is they say they have an overall shortage of foster parents and because of that the quality of foster parents across the board isn't what they'd like to see
so they had to make some exceptions
and secondly it's a priority of the department to place foster children with relatives
so in these cases they are more willing to take a gamble and put somebody with a relative who had a serious criminal record
one of the problems that they're trying to correct now is that social workers became vested in these cases
they had to recruit foster parents do a home study have them trained and then get them approved and the last step was the criminal checks
so by that time they'd spent so much time trying to get the parent approved that they were a little more willing to believe their version of offense rather than what the courts said happened
you also looked at the question of what happened after these people with criminal records became foster parents and in some cases they went on to commit other offenses
sure and in sometimes in some instances these offenses impacted on the children
there was one gentleman in particular who had a serious record that included charges of rape and assault and various and sundry other things who a couple of months after he was approved attacked his wife in front of the children over a dispute on how to discipline the children and he threatened to kill the mother at that time and the police had to come
and that's just one instance of somebody who reoffended or committed a new crime after they were approved
your story in sunday's boston globe seems to have had a knock on effect on practices of the department of social services
sure
well we started looking at this several months ago and d. s. s. says they became interested in it several months ago as well
but as of today these waivers will no longer be allowed and in fact they're cracking down on the hiring of criminals for all jobs in the state human service agencies
you know i was struck by one case where you mention a foster father who was approved despite a record for assault and rape and i think robbery and you noted he's from brockton and his career his work is as a security guard
yes somewhat of an irony there
we found folks from all walks of life though i have to say
when looking at this we found people who were teachers successful business people
although we did see a lot of people in urban areas with more of the problems but it took all kinds
there must be a severe shortage of foster parents for these folks to be considered in the first place
well that's true and all you have to do is look at the number of foster children in massachusetts to understand why there's a problem
in nineteen eighty five there was roughly eight thousand foster children
in nineteen ninety five that figure had risen to over thirteen thousand
so you can see that they're experiencing a unbelievable growth rate here and the volunteers for foster parenting is just not keeping up with the demand
well david armstrong thank you
thank you robert
david armstrong is a reporter for the boston globe
he's the author of an investigation of the approval of former criminal offenders as foster parents by the massachusetts department of social services
commentator elissa ely remembers the first time she put on the white coat that defined her as a doctor
that was during her residency
but now years later as a psychiatrist she says it's not the coat that makes the physician
the first day i wore the white coat in medical school shy proud fresh from the hospital laundry i took it for a spin on the boston streets
i was sitting at a deli counter near the hospital
an old woman sat on the next stool eying her hamburger
over sixty five you can eat meat ben she was saying to an old man beside her
then she interrupted herself and turned to me you can eat meat over sixty five can't you doctor i had arrived
people respond to the white coat
it has nothing to do with what's inside
it's as if the material itself had absorbed all of the medical information
i had the white coat on the first time i met a patient for a physical examination
he was a forty five year old harvard lawyer
he sat by the hospital window reading documents in a jacket and tie one leg was in a steel brace
falling out of one of his jacket pockets was a pipe
falling out of one of mine was a stethoscope a reflex hammer pen lights tuning forks and calibers for reading e. k. g.s
falling out of my other pocket i hoped he wasn't noticing was a banana and two tootsie rolls
the lawyer gave an impeccable case history and i took impeccable notes
he described the taxi that had cut across four lanes before ramming into his car
he described the emergency room where he was discharged with instructions to use heat on pulled muscles
three days later he could not move his left side after a blood clot had coagulated in his brain
i left the room so he could undress for the exam
he was sitting in the same chair when i returned furiously smoking the unlit pipe in nothing but a pair of underpants
the laundry had run out of johnnies
without his suit and documents he was not a upright and professional but bow ribbed pock marked up the spine and damp
his left arm and leg were shriveled and his toes smelled powerfully
when i palpated his abdomen he giggled
it was an awful humiliated sound
i know now that he was ashamed of his exposure
he felt suddenly unequal
a good physician would have taken off her white coat right there
it didn't comfort and reassure the patient but it comforted and reassured me
at that moment i trusted me more with it on
after internship ended i never wore the white coat again
in psychiatry it would be a pretension
but i never returned it to the hospital laundry either
it hangs stolen in my closet
i don't look at it anymore
elissa ely is a psychiatrist living in massachusetts
she comes to us by way of member station w. b. u. r. in boston
this is n. p. r. national public radio
this is all things considered i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
in what has become something of a ritual for u. s. leaders president clinton unveiled his nineteen ninety six drug policy today
he spoke to an enthusiastic audience at a miami area middle school
the president said some progress has been made in the war on drugs but that more resources are needed especially to fight what he called the growing popularity of methamphetamine or speed
n. p. r.'s phillip davis reports
the president chose george washington carver middle school in coral gables florida a miami suburb because this year it became one of the success stories in the fight against drug abuse
we are here because of what you have done
zero guns zero assaults zero incidents of drug related violence zero drugs
that's where america ought to go and where america can go
the president used this school as a backdrop because its success is rare these days
though drug abuse is down from levels of a decade ago among youngsters it has begun to rise again
getting young people to reject narcotics was priority number one in the president's new drug strategy
the president also called for more effective drug treatment and prevention increased border patrols to stop drug smuggling and to combat those who supply the chemicals that make up illicit drugs
as part of its effort the administration is turning the spotlight on a drug that has waxed and waned in popularity for decades methamphetamine also known as speed or ice or simply meth
that is a deadly drug
it is gaining in popularity
in two years deaths from this drug have doubled
i'm glad it's not here yet but we have to stop it before it becomes the crack of the nineteen nineties
mr. clinton wants to increase penalties for using or trafficking in methamphetamines to the same of those for crack five years in prison for as little as five grams of the drug and also to make it a crime to possess the chemicals used to make it
drug policy experts applauded the president's effort to raise the profile of drug interdiction efforts
but his emphasis on methamphetamines left some scratching their heads
eric wish is director of the center for substance abuse research at the university of maryland
yes there is a methamphetamine problem but it's very limited to a small part of the population primarily people living in those states either on the far west coast or in those states that border with mexico because the drug apparently the precursors to the drug are more available in mexico and the drug may be coming through over the border
but it turns out that at a time when we have a raging marijuana problem going on with our nation's youth and we still have a tremendous cocaine problem especially among adults going through the criminal justice system i think the president has chosen to focus on the issue which is probably the smallest drug problem limited to just a small number of people
nonetheless the president wants congress to approve ten million dollars more just for methamphetamine fighting efforts
overall clinton is asking congress to approve fifteen point one billion dollars one point three billion dollars more than last year to beef up enforcement and treatment efforts
lawmakers in the republican party said they would go even further than the president
michigan senator spencer abraham said his party would provide
more prosecutions with more resources and with a clear message that drugs are wrong
for the last three years this administration has sent the opposite message
now maybe the impending election has got the president off the bench and onto the playing field and if so that's fine because this is a war that we have to win and we welcome him to the fight
but it's important to understand the clear difference in priorities that are being set forth today
so even though the country is in a period of belt tightening to balance the federal budget it is likely that this year the white house and congress will manage to budget more money for the war on drugs
in washington this is phillip davis reporting
today a republican congressman released figures from the congressional budget office indicating that medicare will go broke in the year two thousand one
the report has renewed the resolve on capitol hill and at the white house to make changes in medicare which pay some or all of the health care bills for thirty seven million elderly or disabled americans
as n. p. r.'s joanne silberner reports medicare reform won't necessarily happen soon
the numbers surprised few medicare watchers
in fact while the trustees who oversee medicare have been setting two thousand two as the bankruptcy date the congressional budget office last august said the trust fund would go broke in two thousand one
now there has been some acceleration according to a c. b. o. spokesman
if no changes are made to medicare the program will go into the red earlier than two thousand one and for more than the c. b. o.'s projection last year one hundred eighty billion dollars more according to congressman bill thomas of california
he says the administration needs to work with republicans to do something now
the congressional budget office report confirms our worst fears about medicare
a bad problem has just gotten worse
the nation's medicare crisis has deepened
the reasons are at least partly due to more older people than expected winding up in the hospital
white house health care expert chris jennings says the administration is concerned about the financial viability of medicare but the republicans are politicizing the short fall to make it sound new and unexpected and it's neither
there's some republicans who are more interested in raising concerns i guess and potentially unnecessarily scaring older americans and also the people with disabilities who get medicare benefits rather than addressing the problem
the white house has also been accused of using medicare to win the support of the elderly
both sides have their own plans to fix medicare
both would let older people choose managed care
both would hold down payments to doctors hospitals and other health care providers
but the republican plan would also offer medical savings accounts
they'd also have older people pay six and one half percent more of the medicare premium
the republicans say their plan would keep medicare solvent through two thousand twelve six years longer than the democratic plan
even if democrats and republicans could agree on one plan or the other neither would be enough to prepare medicare for the crisis that really lies in wait the baby boomer onslaught in the year two thousand ten says gail wolensky head of medicare during the bush administration
it's a little discouraging right now
we are losing very important time
we've made financial promises we can't keep
the longer we wait the closer we get to two thousand ten the fewer our options
medicare has been headed toward bankruptcy before
in nineteen seventy two the fund's trustees estimated it would go broke in nineteen seventy six
in nineteen eighty four the trust fund was given seven years to live
each time congress has managed to enact short term fixes
but congress watchers for the most part doubt that any kind of fix short or long term can come out this particular congress and this particular president
ed howard is with the non partisan group the alliance for health reform
i can't imagine that they will frankly
the amount of time that's left between now and the conventions is sufficiently short and the bundle of issues sufficiently complicated not to mention controversial that it's going to be very difficult to get to agreement
especially because both the democrats and republicans have wrapped their medicare plans into plans to redo welfare and medicaid two other politically contentious topics
this is joanne silberner in washington
it is being billed as a christian woodstock a two day demonstration here in washington which organizers hope will draw two hundred fifty thousand teenagers and young adults
one member of the park police put the number of participants so far at about thirty thousand to forty thousand
some twenty christian bands and two dozens speakers are scheduled to take part in the washington for jesus rally which is designed to send a message of hope and positive action
organizers chose the twenty ninth of april on purpose
they say it was on this date in one thousand six hundred seven that a virginia colonist the reverend robert hunt arrived in america and dedicated this country to the glory of god
since then of course the separation of church and state has become a tenet of american democracy
not only is there no state religion but there are no organized prayers in public schools and no religious displays in government buildings
also tax revenues cannot be used to support religious schools something commentator joe laconte says needs to be changed
when the wisconsin supreme court struck down a state funded voucher program for children to attend religious schools it sent some parents into an uproar
joanne curran a mother of four said she would not send her children to public school
she vowed i'd rather go to jail it's not hard to understand such devotion
study after study confirms that private school students no matter what their racial or economic background score better on standardized tests and are more likely to graduate than their public school counterparts
that's especially true in church affiliated schools which make up most of america's non public schools
in a ten year old voucher program in new york city sixty nine percent of the kids attending private religious schools go on to graduate compared to thirty nine percent for public schools
it's no coincidence
church based schools can enforce discipline exercise authority and hand out a moral compass for every student in every classroom
in public schools children are more likely to get a condom than a compass
what parents and school officials are discovering is that effective education cannot occur in a vacuum
it requires a rich biosphere of moral instruction
or as teddy roosevelt once put it to educate a child in mind but not in morals is to educate a menace to society
politicians seem to be getting that message as well
california governor pete wilson supports a voucher bill that would help send two hundred fifty thousand students from the state's worst performing districts into private schools
u. s. senator dan coats is proposing federal grants for one hundred school districts in which parents could send their children to the school of their choice
and congressmen james talent and j. c. watts have just unveiled a scholarship plan for inner city children to attend religious schools
all of these leaders link quality education with morality and faith exactly the elements missing in public classrooms
critics of voucher plans need to explain why children from poor families must remain cut off from one of our most effective teaching institutions the church based school
if vouchers go not directly to schools but to families then a parent not the government chooses where to use that voucher and no church state lines need be crossed
ultimately it's a question of fairness
we need a more level playing field for alternatives to traditional public education
joanne curran is ready to go to jail to get that for her children
education elites it seems are ready to send her there
joe laconte is deputy editor of policy review the journal of american citizenship
i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel with all things considered
the motion picture hoosiers some years ago told the story of an indiana high school basketball tournament won by a shot at the last moment
all right
listen up listen up
here's what we're going to do
jimmy they're going to be expecting you to take the last shot
we're going to use you as a decoy
buddy you get the ball and then roll on the picket fence
he's going to take the last shot
all right let's go
the story in the movie is the true story of an indiana high school team winning the state tournament in nineteen fifty four a tiny school milan going all the way against the state's biggest schools
and that after today is no longer going to be possible
the indiana high school athletic association has voted to separate the schools into four divisions based on enrollment size
now there will be four state champions instead of one
bobby plump made the winning last shot for milan high school in nineteen fifty four
he's been campaigning against this change in the indiana tournament set up
indiana has been noted throughout the united states as the high school boys' basketball capital of the world and we're getting to be known as the girls' now
in nineteen ninety four we drew better than a million people to our state tournament of boys' and girls' basketball
we grossed better than three million seven hundred thousand dollars
those are pretty impressive figures and everybody knows we're not the largest state
but i don't think there's another state that can compare with those numbers both in attendance and in gross receipts
but how is that going to be hurt if you take if you go to classes
because the interest is going to dwindle and decline
we've heard from most of the other states around and people that have lived in the other states that when you go to a class system and those that have the class system now there isn't the interest
the attendance doesn't follow it
you don't have the david and goliath type thing or the potential for that
forget the fact that a small school hasn't won it since we did in nineteen fifty four
there have been a lot of small schools that almost won it and that's what creates the excitement
what is the best argument though mr. plump from the other side
there was one game this year newcastle which is one of the bigger schools in indiana beat i believe a team by ninety five points
yes that's correct but that's happened throughout the history of indiana basketball
if you could look back through the history you'll find that occurring all the way through and it didn't seem to make such a big difference then
but the argument
the argument for the proponents of this
all i've heard so far is one that look at the number of small school that have not gotten to the final game of the tournament
and then on the other hand they say we're not talking about championships but they use the final game of the tournament
and what they say they're doing it is for the kids or i call them the student athletes
we the friends of hoosier hysteria have a different opinion of that
we think it perhaps is a detriment to the kids
we think you relegate those student athletes when you start classing them and saying you're not good enough to play against the best
we think you relegate them down to a secondary status and especially in view of the college coaches throughout the nation
we think perhaps there's a detriment to them that they wouldn't be scouting those that are in the lower classes because they don't know if they can play against the larger classes
mr. plump has a day gone by when you've been within the borders of indiana that somebody has not mentioned the final shot you made in nineteen fifty four
that has been true from the time that i hit that shot and it has been exceptionally true in the last six months
i mean it isn't just once a day it's and it's quite gratifying obviously
but if i'd have missed the shot i'd still feel the same that i do right now about the tournament in indiana
bobby plump
he's now in the insurance business and has a restaurant in indianapolis called plump's last shot
today the indiana high school athletic association voted to have schools compete in four divisions
if enough high school principals sign a petition against this the matter could be reopened
parents make their first attempts to communicate with their children as soon as the baby's born
commentator david crystal has these observations about the words used for those first dialogues
very early on when children are learning to speak you get this phenomenon called reduplication by which is meant they duplicate the sounds that they're saying
instead of saying da they might say dada instead of saying see they might see see or something like that
reduplicated babbling is something that you hear quite a lot of towards the end of the first year of life
but in fact adults reduplicate quite a lot as well teeny weeny for instance or teensy weensy and all sorts of variations on it meaning tiny
it's a phrase that goes back to the one thousand eight hundred fifties itsy bitsy the baby form of a little bit
if you don't like any hanky panky that's probably related to hocus pocus' trickery underhand dealing that sort of thing
a nursery rhyme tradition the fairy tales henny penny humpty dumpty hickory dickory dock piggy wiggy tootsy wootsy and all of these things
i guess we're all children at heart really
david crystal is the author of the cambridge encyclopedia of the english language
he lives in hollyhead wales
hawaiian leslie lang didn't learn the language of her ancestors until she went to college
her parents never spoke hawaiian and she rarely heard it spoken
but she finds the ancient language has brought her in touch with family stories and traditions which had all but disappeared
when my great great great grandfather was born in hawaii in one thousand eight hundred thirty five people still spoke hawaiian
two generations later his grandchildren went to schools where all instruction was in english but they spoke hawaiian at home
the same with their children one of whom was my grandmother
now it's two generations after that and due to the drastic decline of the native language i'm learning to speak hawaiian not at home but at a university
my great great great grandfather was named nalimo and he lived for ninety nine years
he was born only fifty some years after captain james cook arrived in hawaii and introduced the outside world and its intrigues and only fifteen years after christian missionaries landed here intent on saving pagan souls
indeed they got his soul
nalimo was a devout christian educated at the missionary's hilo boarding school and lahaini luna school and sent as a preacher to the gilbert islands where he tried to return the favor by saving some souls himself
and yet as devout a christian as he became he was also a staunch hawaiian
from my grandmother's description i can picture him pounding poi in his eighties
he would sit on the ground a cloth around his forehead to catch the sweat pounding the taro he had planted and tended himself using poi pounders
they still sit in my grandmother's dining room cupboard carved from stone by some ancestor in the long forgotten past
and he chanted to my grandmother and her sister when they were young chants in hawaiian of course that told of their family their genealogy oral tradition that describes our hawaiian names and tells of our family being descended from pele a hawaiian goddess
this did not seem to conflict with his belief in the christian god
ninety ninety six is the year of the hawaiian language kamakahiki oca ololo hawaii
this might seem unimportant or even rather whimsical to people elsewhere maybe even to some people who live in these islands without any sense of hawaii's history and uniqueness
but not to me
learning hawaiian means i can understand the family histories nalimo chanted
i can read and understand the stories of historical battles of his time in the gilbert islands and even his biography as he related it toward the end of his life
his friend a scholar wrote all his stories down in hawaiian
i think of those pages as a gift to me his great great great granddaughter and the first in the family to read them one hundred sixty one years after he was born
and learning hawaiian means i can speak to my grandmother in the language she hasn't spoken for more than fifty years
and so i learned to speak the language in this kamakahiki oca ololo hawaii to know about my great great great grandfather nalimo and his times and to talk to my grandmother
leslie lang is a student at the university of hawaii
she comes to us by way of hawaii public radio in honolulu
this is n. p. r. national public radio
police in spokane washington are trying to find out who set off a bomb at three o'clock a. m. this morning at spokane city hall
no one was reported injured but authorities say the device was powerful enough to have caused injuries if it had gone off during the day
from member station k. p. b. x. in spokane lakshmi singh has this report
the city of spokane washington is on a heightened state of alert
government employees are expected to encounter higher security measures at the workplace while local police investigate the explosion at spokane city hall
they're analyzing debris from the early morning blast
federal and local authorities say the device that detonated appears to have been a large pipe bomb containing three inch nails
sources say the design of the bomb appears to be fairly sophisticated
dick cottam spokesperson for spokane's city police department says a city worker discovered the bomb damage
about six thirty this morning a maintenance person with city hall came to the building and this was the first discovery that there was something had happened
a door on the east side of the city hall has the glass out and there is debris on the sidewalk and there is some debris in the street
pieces of glass and nails from the bomb were found at least a block away from city hall
local authorities are working with the federal bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms on this case
they say a city county explosives disposal unit has searched other government buildings for secondary bombs
none was found
the police say no one has claimed responsibility for the bomb
the explosion comes just weeks after two other pipe bombs were set off the same day at a spokane valley newspaper and local bank
authorities say the blasts may have been used as a diversion for a bank robbery
police are not commenting on whether those explosions are connected with this morning's bombing
for national public radio i'm lakshmi singh in spokane washington
it's all things considered
i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
senate whitewater hearings resume tomorrow on capitol hill with testimony from officials of the arkansas state police
meanwhile in little rock the trial of president clinton's former partners in the whitewater real estate venture continues
the president's testimony which he videotaped yesterday will remain sealed until the arkansas jury hears it
the independent counsel overseeing that trial kenneth starr has run into some of the same problems encountered by investigators of the white house in other administrations but starr is the first independent counsel to keep private law clients
and that has led to charges of conflict of interest with his public duties
n. p. r.'s nina totenberg filed this report
good evening the country tonight is in the midst of what may be the most serious constitutional crisis
controversy is no stranger to prosecutors who investigate presidents nor is presidential fury
president nixon ordered watergate special prosecutor archibald cox fired
has been fired
agents of the f. b. i. acting at the direction of the white house sealed off the offices of the special prosecutor
fifteen years later the prosecutor this time was lawrence walsh the scandal iran contra the presidents reagan and bush and the chief attacker senate g. o. p. leader bob dole
if congress spent fifty million dollars in this kind of chicanery the liberal media around this town would be investigating
with past as prologue it was not exactly surprising when whitewater independent counsel kenneth starr found himself under attack by president clinton's allies this year
what has been a surprise even to some of starr's closest friends is that the prosecutor has given his critics an opening an opening that the white house has been only too happy to exploit
from the beginning many in the clinton white house were upset by the starr appointment
they saw starr as a personally ambitious partisan and readily ticked off what they say are his offenses
item one paula jones just weeks before his appointment starr had worked on a brief in support of jones' sexual harassment claim against president clinton
item two starr's politics he had briefly flirted with running for the senate seat from virginia in nineteen ninety four he's on the advisory board of several conservative groups funded and founded by clinton bashers and he is widely considered a hot prospect for appointment to the supreme court in a republican administration
item three starr's appointment not only was it unexpected replacing the highly regarded robert fiske but the circumstances raised eyebrows
shortly before starr was selected the chief judge of the court that appointed him judge david sentelle met with two of president clinton's harshest critics senators jesse helms and lauch faircloth of north carolina
both senators denied even discussing the appointment with judge sentelle but critics note that sentelle owes his judicial seat to helms and that the judge's wife subsequently went to work for senator faircloth
still no one who knew kenneth starr had ever seen him do anything unfair
his reputation for integrity was untarnished and even the clinton point man on whitewater abner mikva who had served with starr for many years when both men were judges respected the prosecutor
i have the greatest admiration for him
he was a good colleague a good judge someone that we had disagreements but they were always very respectable
indeed the white house was initially reassured by starr's performance on the job his professional demeanor and low profile
but the respectful relationship came to an abrupt end when starr subpoenaed first lady hillary rodham clinton to appear before the grand jury amid suggestions of obstruction of justice
former white house counsel mikva says bluntly that he now feels starr deceived him with professions of concern for the presidency
for him to turn around and at the first political opportunity haul the first lady before the grand jury for no reason other than it was politically prime time to do it just disturbed me and disappointed me
starr's former deputy mark tewe a liberal democrat who is hard to anger flushes at that charge
i know it wasn't grandstanding and frankly a number of senior prosecutors on the staff had a good deal to say about the ultimate decision
indeed many veteran prosecutors not connected to the whitewater investigation say that starr was fully justified in calling mrs. clinton to the grand jury after documents subpoenaed months earlier surfaced in the white house
but in a story about appearances kenneth starr soon found that he had some explaining to do of his own
what bothered friend and foe alike was that while starr was running an investigation of the president of the united states at a cost to the taxpayers of one million dollars a month he was a million dollar a year partner at one of the nation's top corporate law firms
that was in marked contrast to his predecessor robert fiske
i'm going to take a leave of absence from my law firm so that i can work full time to conduct and complete as expeditiously as possible a complete thorough and impartial investigation
fiske a republican had been removed as whitewater independent counsel not because of anything he had done or not done but because he'd been appointed by attorney general janet reno during a period when the independent counsel law had lapsed
once the law was renewed by congress the special three judge court charged with appointing special prosecutors did not reappoint fiske as expected citing the appearance problem that might be created by reappointing a clinton administration nominee
true attorney general reno had consulted with the g. o. p. congressional leadership before appointing fiske
but appearances were what the judges said concerned them and fiske had been chosen by attorney general reno
appearances are what kenneth starr critics now say concern them and they're crying foul because starr has retained his high level law practice at the same time as serving as independent counsel
fred wertheimer former president of common cause helped draft the independent counsel law
when you're given the responsibility to conduct a criminal investigation that may implicate the president of the united states you have a responsibility to serve one master the american people and that is what ken starr should have been doing from the outset
if you look at the last three people who have had the responsibility to investigate activities that could involve a president archibald cox a democrat laurence walsh a republican robert fiske a republican all three of those independent or outside counsels conducted their jobs on a full time basis
it's absolutely not a part time job for him
mark tewe starr's former deputy
and with the professional staff that he's brought together this investigation is going to be handled in the only way that it should be handled professionally and objectively
starr's critics say it's not just a matter of full time or part time it's a matter of conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest
starr in his private law practice represents some of the nation's top corporations and industries and some of his clients like tobacco giant brown and williamson are in a pitched battle with the clinton administration
indeed on the very day starr's most important witness in the first whitewater trial took the stand starr was in new orleans as lead counsel of the tobacco industry in a massive class action case brought by consumers
starr has retained famed senate watergate counsel samuel dash to advise him on questions of ethics
and dash who refused to be interviewed on tape for this broadcast points out that the mere appearance of conflict is not enough under the rules of ethics to disqualify a lawyer or judge from handling a case
dash concedes that he would prefer it if starr had no private clients and he says he understands how responsible people would think there's an odor to the whole matter
former starr deputy mark tewe also concedes that questions about the appearance of conflict are legitimate
it's a question that's a fair question to ask
but i think at the end of the day the appearance issue doesn't is not merited
i think that the real issue nina here is is ken starr as the independent counsel focusing his full attention on this investigation in an impartial non partisan way
and i'm satisfied having basically run the investigations for him for a year that he has done just that
former common cause president fred wertheimer disagrees
he is given the awesome responsibility of conducting an investigation that could involve the president of the united states
at the same time he's out earning huge fees from private clients some of whom have a very large stake in seeing president clinton out of that job
that is having it both ways
it's playing by washington rules
i don't think those rules hold up once you get outside of this city
the white house now apparently sensing starr's vulnerability and perhaps its own has not hesitated to capitalize on the prosecutor's appearance problems
white house aides have been cranking out faxes to reporters all over the country faxes of editorials in the new york times and the charlotte observer calling for starr's resignation
and president clinton last week for the first time spoke cryptically but clearly about starr's alleged conflicts
the facts are what they are and they're plain for all to see now
it's not unusual of course for a president under fire to try to divert attention away from himself and onto the person who's investigating him
but kenneth starr says he will not be intimidated
he says he has no intention of resigning
i'm nina totenberg reporting
it's all things considered i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
it's often said that there are no second acts in american lives
well one of the most colorful americans to disprove that statement is clarinetist and bandleader artie shaw
in the nineteen thirties and forties shaw was reported to have made as much as thirty thousand dollars a week and to have married eight glamorous women among them ava gardner and lana turner
in nineteen fifty four he chucked it all
for his life's second act he became a writer
shaw does his writing at home in southern california
dean olsher visited him there and prepared this report
artie shaw's house hides in an anonymous development of comfortable but by no means extravagant homes
his has a gate and a pool
the real action though is on the top floor
you're looking around walking around inside my head up here
the converted attic houses eight thousand maybe ten thousand books many of which shaw has read several times
there are a few other things including framed gold records and awards
i got an honorary doctorate at the university of arizona
another one from cal lutheran
uh oh
i've got to fix that
this is i don't know hall of fame whatever the hell
i don't know what they are
people hand them to you
it's a way of saying we like you
or he chuckled as he walked toward his desk it's a way of saying we want to be associated with you shaw doesn't take these things very seriously
the books though they matter
reading has been shaw's passion since he was eight years old
he took his name from a book
reading about the house of shaws in robert louis stevenson's kidnapped he chose shaw to replace arshovsky the name he was born with in nineteen ten
the typed script for a book of his own sits on the desk
it's the first part of a trilogy called the education of al b. snow an autobiographical novel in progress
my guy's name is al snow and al b. snow looks very much like artie shaw
it's not done by accident very carefully considered
and it's no accident that the music world artie shaw endures looks very much like the one al b. snow lives in
music in his day was execrable i mean especially popular music
it was called dance music and the people who practiced it were they were you know they don't know what they were doing
and this young man happens to be pretty bright and he knows what he's doing
there were a few of us around
we were all doing the best we could but it was a miserable business
you were playing musak
when i had the best of my bands people would hold their noses and act like they were pulling a toilet chain you can't dance to it
in spite of his huge celebrity or perhaps because of it shaw winces at the suggestion that he was once a successful musician
popular yes but if he was so successful he wonders why is that audiences only wanted to hear danceable tunes such as frenesi begin the beguine and stardust but not more sophisticated compositions like the maid with the flaxen hair suite number eight or nocturne
shaw wanted to be an artist and to please himself but he was an entertainer whose job it was to please the public
so like many a disgruntled worker with means he quit
his attitude toward life is i live my life i do what i want i think what i want i say what i want and to hell with the rest of it
that's mel torme who recorded with shaw in nineteen forty six
artie shaw was never ever not one day of his life comfortable being a performer
i mean he hated being out in front of the crowds and he loved playing the clarinet
but if he could have played the clarinet in his living room just for himself i think he would have been just as happy as pie
actually not
shaw is a perfectionist
he practiced hard to get good on the clarinet and he's not interested in noodling around for his own amusement
i haven't touched it in thirty five forty years
you never take it out of the case
there's one sitting downstairs with two kachina dolls looking at it
somebody asked me if i missed it
yeah
if you had to cut off a gangrenous right arm you'd miss it
but if you had to choose between keeping it and dying with it you'd cut if off right
that's what i did
i cut off music because i would have died if i kept up
shaw tried to leave the music business twice in his life and was twice lured back before he made his final break
i was fortunate enough to have a war come along and give me the incentive i needed to get the hell out of it and get into psychoanalysis in which i began to understand who i was and what my motivations were and what i should get rid of big cars beautiful women big houses
and at first you're intoxicated by it especially if you're a poor kid growing up as i did
but then pretty soon you say this is all hollow
it's a sham
it's nothing and it's doesn't lead anywhere and the price is too great
not the price in money but the price in my own self
how much have yourself do you sell for money is what it gets down to
do you get annoyed by the fact that a lot of people think of you as the guy who had eight wives
as the guy who what
who had eight wives
i didn't have eight wives and i don't see the point of counting
i must have had how many women has mick jagger had
well you didn't have eight wives
no i didn't have eight
that's a flat fact
am i right though that that's the number that's often repeated in print
well yeah
but i got a great suspicion of history
after seeing what they've done with me i can imagine what they did with attila the hun
he must have been a good family men invented the p. t. a.
i'm sure he was a good kid
so tell me how many wives did you have
i don't see any point in discussing that
how many women have i known
i'm just thinking if i'm on the verge of a big scoop here that i can correct the history books
there's no scoop and nobody gives a damn
maybe the truth will come out in his novel which he's been working on for years
like the trouble with cinderella which he wrote in nineteen fifty two this book is autobiographical
but because he brings the same perfectionism to his writing that he brought to music the revisions go on and on
right now i'm fixing chapter forty four
could you read a little bit of it to me
nah
nah o. k.
i'd rather not
i'll let that book come out
when that book does come out it's hard to imagine shaw caring much whether it's a best seller
he writes because of an inner need not for ego stroking and apparently not out of any concern for how he's remembered
who's who after fifty years usually asks people if they have an epitaph they would like to see
so i gave them one some years ago
it was he did the best he could with the material at hand in my case the material at hand was very meager
and that went on for a few years and then finally i came up with a better one and i said this is the one i want now instead of that
it's two words what
go away
the writing life suits artie shaw just fine because there's nobody around to pester him
but he says if he could only get rid of the phone
for national public radio this is dean olsher
you're listening to all things considered
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
when the poet quincy troupe was growing up in saint louis back in the nineteen fifties everyone expected him to become an athlete like his father the great negro league catcher quincy troupe senior
but all that changed when troupe went to france and was playing basketball there on an all army team
that's where he met philosopher jean paul sarte who advised troupe to become a poet
since then quincy troupe has written over eight volumes of poetry and essays won two american book awards and is the co author with miles davis of miles the autobiography
he is now a professor of literature at the university of california san diego and this summer in new mexico he'll defend his title as world heavyweight poetry champion at the taos poetry circus
our poet guide catherine bowman joins us now from new york to introduce us to some of quincy troupe's poems
hi cathy
hi noah
quincy troupe grew up like you said in saint louis and you can really hear that in his poetry
you hear the southern baptist preachers you hear the old african american barbers
chuck berry lived right down the street from him and his poetry is very very influenced by blues and jazz
in fact he performs lots of times with jazz musicians and he gets up and improvises
his poems are sort of like john coltrane's or jimmy hendrix sheets of sound
the first poem we are going to hear is called flight and he wrote this poem while he was flying to seattle
flight at sunset across a western horizon bright mauves oranges and purples streaked with pure speed of broom strokes in a glowing ed clark painting that is a hamburger patty between buns of dark earth and sky and the pacific ocean stretched out there is a moment deep inside history it is perhaps a man telling the world what his eyes do not see where the coastline of california is a necklace of pearls and diamonds roped like a noose around throats of harbors beneath the oozing night spreading now from top to bottom like a squares amoeba ink or whatever our vision imagines there now the light sinking fast past canada and alaska to the north and swallowed whole there in the fish mouth of the pacific where the sun is replaced by the vision of a ping pong ball sticking to the wet black wall of a room freshly painted and it looks like the moon positioning itself there outside this airplane window its mysterious ghost white face centered inside our imaginations where winds seem still but flow fierce as the jet stream tongue of a great poet's blow torch breath fires cadences of looping saxophone miracles deep into our lives stretch them into lines where heart beats are sesiras arresting speech in the middle of a sentence like a glorious sunrise back in the east at dawn stops us in our tracks light dares suddenly breaking the darkness pure and sweet as a baby's sweet breath
cathy bowman quincy troupe has a real dynamic reading style
it's easy to see how he could win the world heavyweight poetry championship there
yeah performance he believes performance is very much part of his poetry
he doesn't see himself as outside of the community
he's in the tradition i guess of the african griot or the like i said before the southern baptist preacher and his poetry to me is about sort of like the same feeling you would get when you look at an abstract painting
it's the mystery and the magic that gives meaning not some sort or rational logic
the next one we are going to hear is i change dreams and it's a very different landscape than this beautiful soft light seattle
it takes place right in the middle of forty second street times square
and you really get the sense of what it's like there and then the poem shifts back and forth between times square and gloster mississippi
and the poem really is about time because in gloster it's so slow there that a single mosquito becomes the very focus of everyone's attention
here's a quote from the beginning of the poem because we're just going to hear excerpt
in gloster no portable telephones panicking anywhere only the constant slow humming glide of bloated mosquitoes
now let's listen to the rest of the poem
in mid town manhattan manic chameleons everywhere hear changing faces at high noon say on forty second street and eighth avenue claustrophobic heat drenching crowds packed in in august locks in on flesh cold as a triple life sentence served out at comstock people here switching up gears trying to sidestep panic in the middle of slapstick dreams and in the center of it all a con man who looks like swifty lazar the hollywood agent tools around inside a white rolls royce peddling gimmicks for old false tooth legends who look so bizarre in public devoid of heavy make up comic even outside of their dream machines illusions tattered memorabilia the con man peddles at some tacky bazaar inside a run down building in a cobwebbed room where he hawks fading photographs of zsa zsa gabor in her prime before she started breaking down in front of our eyes wearing all that weird graphic white pancake make up over her ever changing face lifts masking the dreams we wear ourselves inside our switching ballistic imaginations bewitching us here as we move though times square popping with the charge of electrical currents energy i imagine this poem having when i first started writing it then having to deal with how it slowed down midway through when i hit that part about gloster a third of the way down and tried to avoid all those zig zagging mosquitoes dive bombing in for fresh blood kills my direction moving all over the place after that changing up the focus the rhythm the way my dip stick lines started composing themselves at that point in time they began making it all up as they went along as if they were different musicians improvising this poem like the swifty lazar look alike peddling old hollywood wonders before the fall before they became toothless legends before they became zsa zsa gabor this sputnik verbal drumstick a thing to be eaten after all promises way more than it could ever deliver traveling at the speed of complete bull zip as it were a technicolor times square attitude without rhyme riding in on a broomstick heartsick and caustic homesick for that good old apple charge
well cathy that sounds like sort of a compressed jack kerouac novel about forty second street
yeah he says it all right there
and i think he really gets to that energy that spirit of the place
like you mentioned earlier he worked with miles davis to write his autobiography and he said one really important thing that miles davis taught him was that you have to know where you are and what you're doing and you have to strive to go beyond that
and i think his poetry is always pushing to the edge trying to improvise and take off into pure flight
thanks cathy
catherine bowman talking with us about the poet quincy troupe
his latest book of poetry is called avalanche
ms. bowman's new book is called lock final
it began last week in the standard magazine with bill kristol the editor saying that the dole campaign was in trouble and republicans better be concerned about the consequences
then bill bennett had his reservations about the campaign
over the weekend on all the talk shows the question was what's happened to the dole campaign then this week time magazine wades in with the big funk as democrats retake the agenda and dole still struggles to catch fire the g. o. p. is growing worried the new york times this story more in g. o. p. say dole's senate role hinders campaign here to talk about what's happening to the dole campaign is his media advisor stuart stevens
welcome back
thank you charlie
what do you make about this
now i mean what are you guys when you sit around do you say what do they know
they didn't go out and fight for the nomination
what do they know
they didn't serve the republican party for all these years
what do they know
they've never been majority leader
what do they know
they've never run for an election
well i think that there's an inevitable process here that people can't lose sight of and that is that you we are now in a general election campaign having just come out of a primary
bill clinton's been running a general election campaign
the nature of
and very well
well
you'll give him that
he's been
he's got well he's gotten
a very good
he's gotten better not running against someone
now he's actually going to begin to have to start running against someone
i think it's going to make
but you'll grant that bill clinton looks presidential
a difference
now
he has somehow been able to
oh i wouldn't grant that in a heartbeat
no i don't think
you don't
he looks presidential at all
i think he looks like someone who is trying to look presidential but there's a method acting quality to it
i thought he got elected promising to do something fix the economy and in fact
said he's focus on it like a laser
the message of the message of the campaign
right
was it's the economy stupid
i think the message of the campaign was that he was a new democrat the overall message of the campaign
that's true
and he's back saying
and and and
the same thing
what they found out when they took the wrapper off on right after the inauguration is that he was the same old democrat
all right
but let's come to your candidate bob dole
what
why are all these republicans
right
bennett kristol criticizing saying there's no message
well let me
they haven't come to grips
all right
that he may very well have a story to tell and yes it's early but maybe it's late
well i don't i think that the notion that the party should be impatient about the business of of beating bill clinton is not a bad idea
i mean we'd all rather pick up numbers and say you know bill clinton thirty points behind but there's one thing and that is that whatever people think is going to happen at this stage of the game is not what happens
i mean there is a real contrarian nature you have to be aware of
it's very much like a stock broker
when everybody's saying buy that's the time to sell and vice versa
i mean bill clinton was running third in june
now's the time to buy
third
bill's stock
is that what you're just
third
now saying
and woke up in january president
so i don't think that that's really what the race is about
you know there's this new york times poll that was on the front page of the new york sunday new york times about three weeks ago that looked at the fundamentals of the race like who do americans think has more vision bob dole won that
who do americans trust more bob dole won that
in fact bob dole won every category except this kind of classic one of who sort of feels your pain better and he was only like five or six points behind on that
then why is it that to quote time magazine the funk starts at the top
bob doles' campaign has yet to find its feet or its voice
his strategy of running for president by running the senate has hit up against a white house strategy which consists in part of letting congressional republicans expose themselves in public while clinton says tsk right now it's working
in recent weeks the president's lead over dole the polls have been growing about two points a week
the gap is now fourteen points
i i mean that's some polls have us fourteen
some have us but they're very hard to get bill clinton over fifty percent and i think that that's just a reality here and that is that you emerge from a nomi a primary nominating process
you remember everyone said that bob dole wouldn't get the these same people time magazine they said we weren't going to get the nomination and yet bob dole ended up winning the nomination faster than anybody else
what we've got to do i think is have permission i think it's fair to ask us to win the race that we're in
and we just got in this race and when we get about the business of winning this race which now the campaign will turn and i think that once people focus on these two men the choices they've made in their lives the fact that one is really an intuitive liberal and one is is really a mainstream conservative i think that bob dole is going to win this race and win it handily
there you've got to remember why does bill clinton want to be president
well bill clinton says in the state of the union you've got to believe him he wants to be president to reduce the role of government in our lives that that is now his mission
that is a very difficult race for a democrat to win a very difficult race and there is a cognitive dissonance here between what bill clinton is saying now and the way bill clinton has governed
and people are aware of that and i think they become more aware of that when they really focus on it
i think we'd all agree there are not a lot of people walking around now saying well should i vote for bill clinton or bob dole yet
the choice has not yet been hasn't been formulated
and this is a process you can't hurry
so
i i don't think it'll really begin to happen until the convention
okay
so when robert novak
right
all right
looks at dole's performance
bob dole's greatest fan i always think of him as
on face the nation bill kristol bill bennett
right
newt gingrich when they voice concern you are saying it's silly and unfounded and
i think it's i think no i'd say
this is not democrats
this is not bill clinton saying the dole campaign is not underway
no no
i wouldn't say
i don't think it's silly
i mean i think these are serious smart people
and they're concerned that if this thing doesn't get going
right
then the whole party's going to take a hit on election day
right
well i i think that's kind of their role to be concerned
they're not not out there to be cheerleaders
and i think that that there is a a tremendous desire for the party to win this
i think the party still doesn't understand how we lost ninety two
so i think that there is this this inevitable kind of frustration and i think that's as much as it is as concern about the campaign
but but that you know you have to realize that ra races are about campaigns are about choices and this choice has just begun to be formulated
and we saw in the first step on on senator dole's speech about judges
there is a logical argument that will begin to be laid out here on why bob dole is better to lead this country to the edge of the next century than bill clinton
and i think that the logic of that argument is pretty unshakeable and it's it's something that will begin to happen more and more
plus there's a process now
people in many ways are just beginning to know bob dole in the way that they always just begin to know a nominee once he gets the
no matter how many appearances on how many television programs no matter how many years served in the house and how many years in the senate and how many times he's
it's diff
run for president and how many vice presidential campaigns he's been in
different
it doesn't matter
it's different
people have never sat down around the kitchen table and said okay i have to choose between this man and one other person to be president of the united states and i think when that process begins that it there there are certain what you have to focus on i think it's like the stock market in a sense not focused on the media ups and downs but focused on sort of what are the long term secular trends here in this market
and in this market you still have a tremendous unease which people have about bill clinton even if you agree with him on the issues which is increasingly difficult to do because he doesn't seem to agree with himself
there is this sense there's just something not quite right there
and bill clinton i think still is much more liberal than the the majority of americans
this and i know very little about politics as you know but this sounds like old politics to me
all we've got to do is to paint this guy as a liberal this guy is a conservative and we're going to win
i think no i think that there i think that certain things haven't changed and i think that there is a certain intangible quality people want in a president and i think that that as people begin to look at these two men and make this choice they're going to find that these these qualities of leadership these qualities of of fundamental sense of who you are there there is a quality i think we all would agree i mean for better or for worse there is a quality of constant reinvention about bill clinton which is kind of fascinating to watch and he's very good at it but there is something about that ultimately i think that it's disconcerting to people
let me make two points as we go and then the purpose of this conversation is to have you because of all the hits that
all right
bob dole has taken from so many people as one who is close to him who has seen him up close have an opportunity to articulate what he's about and how you see it from the bunker
one should he step down as majority leader
should he stay away from the senate and go out and get the see the people and
i i don't see that as a problem no
and it's unlikely to happen that he's
i i
going to step down
i have i have no idea
okay
point two
you'll grant me and others who make this very clear when bill clinton was running against george bush not a great campaigner it's far different than bob dole running against bill clinton who is a great campaigner
bob dole is
number
no bill clinton is
oh bill clinton
you know it's very different
so when you compare ninety two with ninety six it's a very different kind of race
but you know what hasn't well
and my third point and which i want to close on because we're out of time is that you've been close to this man
and you and i know each other well
have you seen within bob dole what it is that makes him a magnetic and powerful political leader
yes
do you think you america has seen it yet
only in glimpses
and and
and that's your role and his role and the republican party's role
i think it's the process' role too because i think that that there is there is a process here that can't be hurried and it happened in ninety two you know
people didn't really focus on bill clinton until the convention
and it's when he went from being this kind of flaky guy who's running third to a man from hope and he began to win the race when he did that and he did it very successfully i think that that is a process that begins now and begins slowly
and it's frustrating that it can't happen overnight but there is a persistence and a steadiness and a quality that will come through in this campaign of of a sort of sense of bob dole knowing who he is
and i think that that that right now this doesn't trouble him at all
i don't think it doesn't trouble the campaign in any kind of profound sense
but there's one thing about ninety two and the and the comparisons i think are important
one thing about ninety two ninety two ultimately was as almost every presidential election is when there's an incumbent it was a referendum on george bush
and this when the day is done will be a referendum on bill clinton and they can run all the commercials they want trying to link you know bob dole and newt gingrich and this and all the kind of nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah aren't you afraid commercials but it won't work because bob dole does have a very different persona has a very unique persona
stuart stevens is a media consultant to the dole campaign makes those commercials and you will see them as this campaign unfolds and you'll certainly see them at the republican convention in san diego
thanks charlie
we'll be right back
terry mcmillan is here talking about her bestsellers and her movies
stay with us
author terry mcmillan filled a void felt by many african american women today by creating stories that dealt with them raising children caring for parents trying to find the right man
both the book and film versions of waiting to exhale took this country by storm and identified an untapped audience hungry for representation
here is a clip
terry mcmillan's latest book is called how stella got her groove back
this time she explores what happens when a woman actually finds love although with a man half her age
i'm pleased at long last to have terry mcmillan on this broadcast
welcome ba welcome here
you haven't been here so welcome
thank you
i'm glad to be here really
i am too
this is a this is a lot autobiographical
yeah
semi autobiographical
tell your own stories are the best stories to tell
but particularly when you embellish them
i'm serious
i'm sure you are
i mean really you know
i mean i can't just put all my business in a book
yeah
why not
some of it because some of it i have to keep to myself
because it's precious private
yeah
i mean this everybody sort of knows it now
you know i mean jonathan's picture's been everywhere
including time magazine
yeah
i mean we're not hiding each other
i'm not hiding him he's he's not a souvenir as time magazine says
i met him
he's a nice man
yeah
i mean he's a wonderful man and he's young but he's smart and he knows what he's doing
stella how stella got her groove back
tell me
stella
the story of stella and then we'll talk about you
well stella is a woman who is forty two years old
she's divorced three years sort of a she's a securities analyst for well she's a securities analyst and she has an eleven year old son and basically sort of overdoes it
she does everything like a lot of women
she's got it all going for her except
well i mean i don't think she's really complaining that much when the book opens about not having a man
she's just sort of like she's sort of like on overload and she just decides to take a spur of the moment vacation to jamaica to sort of like recharge her batteries and figure out how to slow the pace of her life down
and when she goes to jamaica she meets unexpectedly because she doesn't go there looking for love or sex or any of that
she just wants to go chill out and slow down
she ends up meeting winston shakespeare who is a twenty slash twenty one year old jamaican man young man and she just thinks it's just going to be something casual
she doesn't even take him seriously and then it turns into something else
but the story sort of evolves out of that but the bottom line for me was it was about how you deal with loss because when she gets home she loses her job
but she sort of didn't like the job anyway she was sort of tired of it
and she was what was she
she makes things you know objects of art of some kind furniture she redoes you know one of those kind of people
and anyway you know that's what she enjoyed doing
and basically she ends up having to sort of question her own sense of right and wrong how to do things for herself that make her feel good without feeling guilty
yeah
she has to question even this young man's age you know like is that really going to be detrimental
and she finally has to come to the conclusion that she can enjoy it without some sense of saying this has to be permanent for ever and ever and ever and ever and figure out
mm hm
all these things about
mm hm
children and everything else
yeah
she can just say
right now this is working
i'm happy and it works and i'm going to enjoy it
i'm not going to let anybody sort of prejudiced against it
yeah
destroy the satisfaction for me
yes
and how does this mirror what happened to you
well it sort of i mean the bottom line is is that when i got back from jamaica you know i wasn't really sure what had happened to me
and it took a while for me to really catch on and i started questioning a lot of this stuff and it ended up taking this form
i started thinking gee whiz i really like this young man but you know and i was like oh no i can't
you know terry no way you know but i had recently lost my mother and my best girlfriend and i di then i ju i started reassessing it all and i just said you know why not
what is wrong with this
you know this young man makes me feel really good i just i i feel like i've come back to life to be honest with you
and what's wrong with this
why shouldn't i why should i feel guilty about doing this
and then i started thinking two men have been doing this for years really still are always will be marrying girls young enough to be their daughters some of them have children older than their wives you know what i mean
so i was like i'm not breaking any rules
i'm not hurting anybody and so i had to
so what's
give myself permission
how's it working
pretty good so far
we're moving into a year so i'm you know it's it's working out fine as far as i know
what is it about your stories that resonate with so many women
what is the truth you're telling
what stories are you telling that people say yeah
i think i just think that my stories are realistic that these are stories that are plausible they could happen to real people
and they're contemporary sort of up to the minute
the details in the story from the music
it's not growing up as a child in the rural
you know but
south
yeah but there's nothing wrong with that
it's just not my it's not my voice
it's not my turf
i'm just really interested in how people treat each other and and how you know our internal clocks sort of decide what happens to us externally
you know what i mean you know how how we deal with ourselves from the inside out and how we interact with each other
and and i'm really particularly interested not just in men and women that seems to be what i've dealt with in the past couple of books but i'm also interested in parents and children and just relationships between people where there is this this yin and this yang and stuff going on where people don't cooperate or they misunderstand each other or mistreat each other
do you think black men african american men don't understand what you're about or they do and just don't like it or just a few have given voice and it seems larger than
i think it's a few that have given voice and and it's much larger because there are a lot of younger men who read my books who aren't offended who don't who don't feel as if i'm male bashing
i think there's
well are you male bashing at all
number
number
you know men need to learn to grow up and accept criticism
there's nothing new about that is there
i know you know but i mean you criticize them and you're male bashing
i mean come on
i mean i chose five guys
yeah but
four or five guys
that's it
but not all men are bad
number
but i've have you heard me say that
number
i haven't
did i say it in my book
number
number
no no no
and i don't and i don't feel that way
i deliberately chose four or five i don't know how many it was guys that were sort of not i don't even want to use the word dogs they just aren't the kind of men that you would want to bring home to your mamma
well that's mainly because they they liked a lot of women primarily and had other things that they were interested in less than the woman yes
number
i mean my attitude was turn it around
why do these women find these men so appealing
why
and attractive
well that was the point
i know
because they didn't value and cherish themselves enough
i mean if you fall in love with somebody else's husband i mean what does that say about you
how much how much power do you think you can get by pulling someone else's husband away from their wife
i mean what does that make you you know trying to rehabilitate a crackhead
you know there's not that much love in the world i'm sorry
there isn't you know
and women are always trying to be the nurturers the caretakers
that's what we are known for and that's what i was more interested in trying to show that it doesn't work you know and that we need to be a little bit more careful about who we choose as our partners
is and that's the message in waiting to exhale
i would like to think so
and the message here is we've got to look out for ourselves and do what makes oursel makes us happy
yes
and don't worry about twenty years from now
worry about next month and next week and
i think so
tomorrow and tonight
you know it works
you know live life like double a
how are you handling i mean i would ask this of a man or a woman or a from anywhere young and old how are you handling all this success
well my gold card gets up really high every month
and i can just pay it off
number
yeah
what's
i don't take it all seriously to be honest with you
i don't i mean like right now i'm reading the reviews
you know i knew i was going to be reviewed in time magazine and
yeah
all that stuff
but you know i mean it happened when the movie came out happened when waiting to exhale
and now it's it's like you just cannot really buy into all the the hype and the publicity
you sort of have to put it over there
yeah
you know because they are two separate issues
i'm over here it's over there
and and that's sort of what i do
is part of your success in your judgment the fact that you were the first person for many people to come along and speak in a voice that resonated
you were there the first time
when you captured your voice which was you it somehow you were there you were first and you were doing it differently
really
i don't know
i'm asking is that it
you know
i don't know charlie
this is news i mean people keep telling me this
i'm asking
you but you know better
i don't feel like that
than anyone else
i don't really feel like that
i just feel like i'm just one among many
you know
yeah
alice walker had a voice toni morrison gloria naylor
you know there are quite a few writers you know john wideman ishmael reed
all of them had voices but i just i just think that maybe i was just a new kid on the block and i think timing and all of that had a lot to do with it
timing did
i'm serious and luck and god
add them all up
whoops
excuse me
and some ability
well yeah a little ability there too
yeah i think so
i think i can tell a decent
story
story yeah
what what pleases you most about the praise and what offends you most about the criticism
what pleases me about the praise is the fact that they they say my work is conversational that it's accessible
and and basically i think i like the conversational tone
you know ring lardner was one of my biggest influences i think and and i i think that that even though i use a lot of humor in my work i think i really appreciate it when people take my stories seriously
i think the critics what what bothers me more about them is when they don't get the story they wanted or when they compare you to yourself
what do you mean the story they want and comparing you to
well it's sort of like
yourself
i mean i've been accused this time of writing a fairy tale because these characters sort of live happily ever after that there's no real edge to this story
and like what happened to the plot you know and i don't write plot driven stories
none of them have been plot driven
my characters my stories are character driven
and and it's most of their battles are internal not necessarily external
and i think also that they they people are more concerned it seems to be to me with you know with how much money i'm getting for the books you know how big my house is what kind of car i drive
well they write that about everybody
no they don't
i mean come on
oh they do
who
everybody
who
who
who
every article in people magazine covers those kind of things
oh i don't count people
i mean a lot of
nothing personal people
people write about that
i mean what
what is this
tell me
i shouldn't say i don't count them
yeah i do
yeah you do
but i remember those stories about you and the cars in front of the big house in san francisco and all that stuff
but they do that about other people and they always want to be posing in their swimming pool in front of their car somehow
not me
they didn't want that about you
number
i mean i'm not posing in front of a stupid car
no no
but they do that
you're not unique in terms of the way a celebrity gets treated in america
mm
they're not picking on you is my point
yeah but my my point is is that i'm a writer you know
talk about the work
why do i write
how do i do it
you know
why do i do it
you know what is the point
you know what kind of house i
okay
answer those
live in and what kind of car
what
what has that got to do with anything
all right
then ask the let's ask those questions
it'll give you a chance to shoot
oh i'm not trying to tell you how to
no no
interview me
number
i listen i've got a lot to learn
i'm trying hard as i can but but i'm enjoying it too
what's the point
well the point is is that i don't get it
i don't understand sometimes why we do what we do why i do what i do
sometimes i don't understand what pisses me off what excites me what frustrates me what hurts me what hurts you what hurts my mother you know my sisters what pisses them off
yeah
you know why can't she get a job why won't he finish college why is he shooting a needle in his arm
i want to know the answers to these questions
and so that's why you write about those subjects
yes
yes
and you find out that there are a lot of sisters and brothers out there who want to know the same have the
i guess you know
same questions and want to hear one person's answers
why is it so hard for us why is it so hard for us to love each other
why is it so hard for us to be compassionate and empathetic towards someone other than ourselves you know
what do we do when we don't get what we need
what if we don't even know what we need
that's what i'm interested in
do you know what you need
i'm getting it
and what is it
love
and right now i need some mouthwash
i've been drinking so much coffee
and what about the next book
the next book is a day late and a dollar short
i started
this was connected to your mother and your mother's death somehow made you pull away from her
but now i'm a lot stronger i think emotionally and mentally
you know i sort of accepted my mom's death
it was a hard thing for me to accept and i couldn't write it but now i can
you like and are influenced by people like toni morrison and alice walker and and others who
well i have a lot of respect for them
yeah
a lot of respect and admire their work a great deal but i'm not i think as far as influence i would just say that they probably helped pave the way to give me a sense of freedom to be able to write in my own voice
yeah
the way that i do
you have opened up the door so that other people are looking and and they're finding things that may have been there but because of you you know the people who are in the book business are looking for them saying
well there's another young christopher farley i think his name is
yeah
yeah
young guy he's got an incredible voice
his book i think comes out in august
there are a lot of young people out here
you're going to see you're going to see
there are more of us
waiting to exhale you were happy with the movie and you wrote the screenplay
yeah
i liked the movie
it was a lot of fun
it was a lot of fun
i wrote the screenplay with ronald bass
i didn't write it alone
yeah but you came in
yeah
yeah but i couldn't have written it without ron i'll tell the truth
i mean really
yeah
because he set it up
forrest did a good job
forrest i think forrest did a great job directing it
terry mcmillan how stella got her groove back
and we'll be right back
stay with us
while writing film criticism for rolling stone movie line and the washington post joe queenan often felt that even he could do better than what he was seeing up on the screen
with the hype surrounding robert rodriguez film el mariachi reportedly made for seven thousand dollars he joe was inspired to go one better
he would make a film for six thousand nine hundred ninety eight dollars
he chronicles the ordeal of making a low budget independent film a task he likened to the baton death march
in his book the unkindest cut how a hatchet man critic made his own seven thousand dollars movie and put it all on his credit card he describes his experience
and i am pleased to have him here
welcome
welcome
hi
i'm glad you're here because we've been trying to do this for a while and and my apologies for not having done it
you first of all where did this idea come from
i was reading an article in the new york times by bernie weinraub
right
which said that this guy named richard rodriguez
yeah right
he got the name wrong so that should have be been the first warning that i was on the wrong track this guy robert rodriguez
right
had made a movie called el mariachi for seven thousand dollars which won an award at sundance
and then all of the critics in the united states said this movie looks pretty good for a seven thousand dollar movie which it does
so i went out and i saw it and i thought well he says someone can make a movie for seven thousand dollars
i want to prove that anyone can make a movie for seven thousand dollars so i'll go out and do it
but that's not what you did
well there were cost overruns
yeah
how about how much
well bu about forty two thousand dollars all told
how do we explain this
well the thing about here's the problem with making a movie okay
yeah
regardless of what anybody tells you movies you have to buy film
yeah you've got to have film
you can't you can't buy film from like shecki's house of film
they don't have any there or
you have to buy film no
there's no shecki's
there's no she you have to buy it from kodak
you know you're not going to go out and shoot a movie using like film that your brother in law gave you
yeah
that was recanned or used fi so you've got to buy film
you've got to develop the film
right
you've got to edit it
you've got to rent a camera
you've got to get insurance
you've got to mix the sounds
well then robert rodriguez had to do the same thing didn't he
yeah but the the thing was he made some kind of prototype of a movie and then columbia fixed it up
okay
and what they call it is enhancement
enhanced it yes
okay
so they but what was great was when they were showing the movie to the new york times to bernie weinraub
yeah
they they weren't saying we enhanced it we're saying yeah this thirty five millimeter film seven thousand dollars
can you believe it and then little by little came out well we put one hundred thousand dollars in to blow it up fix it up put some sound in you know things like that and then it's the same with all of the low budget movies is that they always like it like seven thousand dollars is a great number
now let's understand this
you write you're making this film because you know you want to write this book right
right
all right
and so you set out to to make the film because you know it's going to be a great book
where do you get your filmmaking expertise to go do this because there's being a critic is not being a filmmaker
i got it from the hollywood film institute
yeah
which is run by a guy named dove simmons
two
you went in with a quickie course
yeah
two hundred and seventy nine dollars a two day course that the guy gives in a theater in the lower east side of new york and it's the greatest course because all the guy does is talk about money
he'll just say like he'll he would say here's one of the here's one of the things you have to learn to make you have to learn how to do this and we would say well what does that mean and he goes it means i don't have any more money
don't ask me for any more money and he would do this for like two days and people would say but in in like in like the four hundred blows
yeah
truffaut and he'd say no no no no no
i don't
i don't have any more money and all he would talk about would be for two days
you know you would say well when are we going to start talking about directing and he'd go twenty to five tomorrow we'll talk about it and then when we get to the directing part he'd say here's what you need to know about directing long shot tight shot
that's it
that's it
and like you want to show the passage of time
have a clock on the wall
so when you went to steven spielberg to get some free advice what did he tell you
well i got this woman who works for spielberg at amblin' who took me for a very short cup of coffee at trump's hotel up there on fifth avenue and she said she said have you written the script yet and i said number and she said why not and i said because i have to read like ten books to learn how to write a script
yeah
she said read three so i read one
and you you had it
i read sid field's screenplay book nine point nine five
yeah
and you know he basically you know what sid field says
number
he says learn to write like the guy who wrote chinatown and you'll have no problem
just learn like if you can write chinatown you can write anything
and where did the title come from
it came from
twelve steps
twelve step programs
right
because it's a murder mystery where a psychiatrist is found murdered and all of his patients are in twelve step programs so the cop investigating it has to figure out whether it's the cokehead the alchie the woman who loves too much
and you're the cop
i'm the cop turk bishop
it's a good name isn't it
and where did these other actors come from
down the street from my house
in terrytown
neighbors
yeah terrytown new york
i used my neighbors because at first i
because they're cheap
well it's not that wasn't the reason i used them
the reason i used them was this
i could have gone to like any restaurant in new york city and gotten the waiters because they're all actors and actresses
they're all actors and they're
but they've got attitudes
yeah
and there is a possibility
yes
you know they'd say i want to do six takes
i didn't give it
yeah
my best shot there is a possibility also that they could get jobs and that they would leave whereas with your your neighbors your neighbors have mortgages they have kids they have they're not going anywhere
your neighbors are going to be there for the full
they're going to
thing
be there
the other thing is neighbors are grateful when you let them go home
like if you get neighbors into your movie you you can ju you can see this in the film
yes
you can see a kind of tension where people are like really uptight and the reason is that i would just tell them you can't go home till we finish the scene
well not only that you don't have to buy lunch because they can just go home and get lunch on their own right
my wife took care of all that
she was the cook for this
yeah
deal
yeah
yeah
you didn't give them all of the script
never
why not
because all of my neighbors are nice and i'm not so all my neighbors are the kinds of people who would buy anna quinlan books and vote for dukakis and the book's like very the movie's very non p. c.
non politically correct
right
so they didn't know that it was sort of an attack on twelve step recovery programs because the the cop in the movie his wife and two kids were killed by a schizoid anorexic recovering alcoholic with attention deficit disorder
so so it's not a nice movie and my neighbors are nice so i never told them what i just sort of let it out out in dribs and drabs
yeah
there's something about knowing too much that can ruin motivation
warren beatty never gives anybody
he doesn't
whole scripts so i figured well it's good enough for warren beatty it's fine for my
that's because it's not written
well yeah
there is that
so you you finally you have it all in the can as they say
yeah
isn't that what they say
i think that's what they say
it's in the can
it's wrap time
it's wrap time right
what do you do then
well then you've got to edit it
oh
i mean you know you have to like you have to edit it
you have to now believe me if you only do one take there's less editing involved
right
you only did one take for each scene
no i did like two three sometimes
well you did a wide shot and a closeup
number
wide shot and closeup
number
we've got some shots where it's just we've got a shot with don imus' brothers fred
i wanted to have the longest product plug in history
yeah
so we have don imus' brothers fred written on my back and the camera's on my back for three and a half for one hundred eighty one seconds three minutes so there's
now did fred or don pay for this did they pay for this promotional consideration
it was it was something i wanted to give something back
oh i see
because you know don had had me on the show a lot so i wanted to give something back and i'm not sure this is what he wanted but this is what he got
so
but
go ahead
so when you edit it you have to edit it in a you can't edit it in your basement
you have to edit it in an editing studio so i edited at sound one which is where martin scorsese and people do their films
and then you have to you know you have to have a a sound track you know some music
but you have to have a mix because one of the things that people don't realize about movies is it doesn't matter how bad a movie looks i mean i know that
yeah
yeah
the the sound has to be good though or else people can't stand it and to get good sounds in a movie you have to have a mix where you bring the sound levels up
yeah
so people can hear it
well that's going to cost you another eight or ten grand right there
so it's so you know you just
so six thousand nine hundred ninety eight dollars is shot right from the beginning
sound costs that much
renting the camera the insurance on the camera the the recording equipment and the film is going to cost you seven grand
now as i remember you got some hype from this thing didn't you
connie chung on face to face or whatever the program was came up there
connie chung yes
connie chung followed us around and then they came to the film festival where the movie won a lot of prizes
the film festival
yeah
there was a film festival the first terrytown international film festival that was held one hundred yards from my house in the high school sleepy hollow
and and there was one film shown
yeah
because my idea was why enter a film festival in gdansk or san sebastian because you might not win first prize
if you hold your own film festival it's going to cost you about the same amount about two grand
and and the broad unwashed public what will they know of the difference between the sundance film festival cannes film festival and the terrytown film festival
well you
nothing
it's true because you know i was walking down third avenue a few weeks ago
yes
and i saw a movie that's had something like se winner san sebastian film festival
who cares what won the san seba i don't even know where san sebastian is
is it in puerto rico
is it in spain
i don't know
i don't either
but that's the thing
so first terrytown international film festival
you know some people i don't always let on that i paid for this film festival so some people think it's a very prestigious film festival
okay
well i'm sorry we let them go
now here did any of this experience being in front of the camera being behind the camera raising the money producing the movie creating the film festival whetten your appetite a desire to retire from writing books film criticisms whatever you do and move towards hollywood
number
not exactly
i i always would want to write but since i made this movie i have made two other movies for british television
oh
but i didn't direct them
what did you do
i made a movie called mickey rourke for a day where i don't bathe for three weeks and i don't shave and i get and i dress in black and i abuse women and i smoke a lot of cigarettes made that movie
and then i made a movie called my fair hugh where i play hugh grant
i get turned into hugh grant in forty eight hours
that one is already aired in britain and this and this summer i'm making a movie called joey mnemonic where i play keanu reeves
now are these serious projects
yeah they're real they're like t. v. movies half hour t. v. movies
so the joey yeah so the hugh
so you're getting paid and making some money for this
i write them and then i act in them
well yeah
if you're working with the brits you know how much money you make
now i can see a future for you that you haven't probably considered
roger no
ro michael moore
michael moore
you could be the michael moore of the
i don't eat
of the nineties
i don't eat as heavily as he does
he he looks like no
i've met michael moore but he makes more documen he likes to you know the roger and me
he puts himself yeah
is a documentary
right
right
these things i don't like docu i mean i like that but i don't want to make documentaries myself
i like making movies like this that are just they're exactly like hollywood movies except they don't have they don't have susan sarandon in them
yeah
they have my neighbors
let me finally refer to a piece that you wrote that was brilliant about there was this wonderful magazine cover
i think it was the new york times magazine
and on it were five or six people who were young republicans the cutting edge of new republican thought
right
pick up the story
well the thing that i noticed was
what took your attention
well the thing i noticed was there was this very attractive woman in the foreground named laura engreham
yeah
who was wearing this tight black top and a leopard skin skirt and in the background was lisa shiffman who i know very charming woman who was dan quayle's speechwriter
she was wearing a black top and this leopard skin skirt
so then i went on politically incorrect
yeah
and frank luntz the pollster was on and he's he's like a super straight guy and he's wearing this jacket with these like panther things going on
and then i watched something on ben wattenberg's show on p. b. s. and james pinkerton the new paragon guy has this pearl jam type hair
and then bob dole gets interviewed on m. t. v. by tabitha soren and i figure i hate it when republi i hate it when conservatives try to be cool
conservatives should always be saying you know back when charlemagne was running things you know that's what con conservatives should always be saying things like buy more perry como records and the thing i hate is if if conservatives try to be cool liberals try to be responsible and then the whole country falls apart
the unkindest cut how a hatchet man critic made his own seven thousand dollars movie and put it all on his credit card
joe queenan thank you
thank you
great to have you here
we'll be right back
stay with us
jerry seinfeld paul reiser and ellen degeneres have at least three things in common
they have hit television shows they have bestselling books and they have a young editor named rob weisbach
in late december he was lured from his job as a senior editor at bantam books to start his own imprint at william morrow
at age thirty he's the youngest person to have this position and he's here to talk to us about his achievements and about the world of publishing that he inhabits
welcome
thank you
thank you for having me
your own imprint
what does that mean
it means that in addition to looking after these books and acquiring them and working with the authors it means that i will also be the person who is positioning the books and deciding what the marketing advertising promotion and publicity plans are for them
that's
now can you can we say this is like having your own little publishing company
exactly
it's like having your own mini publishing company within a larger publishing company
within a big within a big
which is taking very good care of you
all right
what is it that you have done i mean it's obvious
what you have been able to do is to get authors to write books which will be bestsellers
that's in a nutshell what you've done right
mm hm
right
i follow my heart
i followed the books that appealed to me the people who appealed to me
i didn't try to anticipate what the market might bear
i didn't look for those people that america might fall in love with and want to work and want to read their books
yeah
i went with my heart
i felt after those things that seemed fun to me and seemed like
yeah
it was entertaining and touched me in a certain way
and by therefore you went first to jerry seinfeld before
first oh yeah
his show was a big success
before his show was a big success
actually first was whoopi goldberg charlie rose oh yeah
who i approached to do a kids book
yeah
and then obviously jerry came along and he was somebody that i was watching on david letterman for many years and loved his work
and i thought this is a guy whose work would make sense on the page because he has a
well how did
great
you know that though
and if that's true why wouldn't david letterman's work make sense on the page or why wouldn't jay leno's work or why wouldn't ten other either existing or former stand up comedians like roseanne barr
right
arnold
well i think jerry has a very strong point of view and a very strong voice but he also has this innate ability to put his finger on what drives us crazy
yeah
about modern life
and there was something about the word play in jerry's comedy and his ability to articulate those things that made sense on the page and i knew would make sense on the page that wouldn't necessarily matter for others
a storyteller too
great storyteller
that would make a difference
great storyteller
whoopi goldberg excellent storyteller
ellen degeneres one of the best whackiest most imaginative storytellers who is not so different than you or i that you can't relate to her
and paul reiser
paul reiser the best chronicler of modern relationships whether it's marriage or any other kind of couple thing
paul reiser seems to know the way we think when
yeah
we're in that kind of en situation
are you convinced that if i could get if i had my imprint rose publishing that that i couldn't go out and get cosby to write a book
it would be a bestseller
if i could get tim allen to write a book it would be a bestseller
if i could get roseanne barr
mm hm
to write a book it would be a bestseller
right
sure
i mean i could find a high profile very successful performer on television who has a comedic sense and i've probably got a bestseller
but i would argue that all of those people write their own material have written their own material are writers at heart
so they fit your category too
so they fit my category not only because they're popular and because they're on television but because they have a strong voice that they've developed in the on the written word
so people could look at the books you publish and say wait a minute it's not it's giving short shrift to your talent not to know that the books that he puts together are funny or interesting
it's not just the name of a superstar that drives the sales
right
i don't think so
i think you can easily kelsey grammer for instance wrote a very smart very lovely book about his life
he's extremely popular but it wasn't very salesworthy because he was writing out of character
and he hadn't written his own material
he was writing his autobiography
he wasn't writing his schtick
but what about howard stern
mm
howard stern
extremely popular talented again incredibly strong voice incredibly strong opinions
huge bestseller
a different kind of work darker certainly one that doesn't bring a lot of joy to my life
so you wouldn't necessarily go to howard stern even though you thought it would be a bestseller
absolutely not
i think the people i think you have to choose what work appeals to you personally and that's the way you can you have to live with this book
you sign it out but they you spend a year with it
you sit next to these people
you talk with them
you help them construct something from nothing
your biggest mistake
biggest mistake
was
you're thinking
i'm thinking
my biggest mistake
my biggest mistake
a book that i had lost for instance
yeah
or a book that you guessed wrong on
i haven't guessed wrong on a book that i've bought
you haven't
i've never anticipated something's being huge
have you missed one that turned out to be
greg louganis
i wanted to do greg louganis for sure
you did
wasn't able to do it
you couldn't make the sale
couldn't make the sale
why not
i think no one as convinced as i am that gay heroes have a market and i think that while a lot of people may credit him for the success of his book as having a lot to do with the fact that he announced that he was h. i. v. positive
yeah
i think at least some of that has to do with the fact that people like me do not have gay heroes
and there's a whole lot of market
what do you mean people like you don't have
a gay man like myself
you don't have a gay hero
does not have a gay hero who's out
yeah
in the world that we can point to as somebody who's done someth who is openly gay
so that made this book a have a huge potential
absolutely
because somebody who was a hero was
for an audience who doesn't
h. i. v. positive
who can't look through anyone
i mean can you name you can't name hardly anybody who is openly gay who's written a book who's accomplished something in the world that you can point to and say that's a good guy
he's accomplished something who's written their own story i can't name him
greg louganis was one of the very few
but could you ask the question where are they there must be somebody who who you would know who's a gay person
yeah
who's accomplished a lot
oh absolutely
yeah
the problem you can't convince them to write the book or
i think the problem is that most people in public life you might not think is gay
yeah
could prove quite a lot that there are people who are successful to young people out there
i mean there are so many kids who have no one to look to as a hero and no one who's openly gay
fair to say this is an active search on your part
absolutely
david mixner long time friend of bill clinton one of the only openly gay officials in the clinton administration
right
right
is writing his memoir
it's a book that i bought at bantam books before i left
one of the best hero stories
he had some conflict with clinton on
absolutely
gays in the military and other issues
he's a man who stood by what he believed and he stuck with his he stuck with his heart and he's survived because of it
he was kicked out of washington and he's back in
yeah
great example
is there anything to be said about age here
i mean you're thirty years old and you've got this imprint and and you have what many people who are in your business would love to have
does having it at thirty makes it what
any different do you think than if you had it when you were fifty or sixty or somebody who gets it when they're fifty
i think it's entirely different in the sense that i still have a lot of work to do
i still have a
yeah
lot of learning to do
but there's something about my position that suggests to me that i'll be able to look for books by people who are younger who are newer who have voices that haven't been heard before
and that's certainly because they appeal to me and i think that's part of my mission is to look after those things that haven't quite been done yet
do i am i right in that seinfeld and reiser have the same agent
do they have the same agent
same
the same literary
manager
agent
same literary agent
yes
who would you look to now
i mean where do you see if you can see around the corner what's going to what kind of things are going to be popular
i think humor there will always be room for humor
there will always be room for people who can make us laugh at ourselves who can again put their finger on that thing that we can't quite articulate about modern life
and the heroes
the people who have the story that haven't been told
i think there probably may be five good stories
and you either have to forget what that sixth story is or you have to figure out how to tell that sixth story in a damn good new way
you mentioned how i mentioned howard stern
howard stern i think it was judith reagan that did that right
yes
and she also did rush limbaugh
rush limbaugh yeah
could you would if you thought rush limbaugh was an instant bestseller
right
before judith reagan got there would you have gone there
i don't think so
i don't think i i don't need to
i think that's part of what my my feeling is
i like going after people i feel i can work with whose beliefs are similar to mine
i am a businessman and that certainly is something i've had to to learn over the years
but i also think i do the best business with the people i understand the best so i think i would have chosen not to
chosen not to even though
yeah
all your instincts would have said
yeah
this he's got a voice
he's got a
because the goal isn't the goal isn't just bestseller
the goal is a story that you you can feel comfortable working with
yeah
other than the greg louganis story
yeah
what book do you wish you had published that was published in nineteen ninety five
hm
anything come to mind
christopher darden's book
really
he was here
mm hm
on wednesday night
it was an extraordinary story
i mean his his is a powerful story
a story that hasn't been told
yeah
a point of view that hasn't been expressed something that we as much as we know
yeah
there's so much more to know
there's a soulfulness to it too isn't it
yeah
is it how's it doing
i think it's doing extremely well
really
the reviews have been very good
yeah
and he's compelling as a conversationalist
and again a story that just hasn't been told
that's part of the thing
somebody i'm working with is atolish bazz malcolm x's eldest daughter
yeah
incredible story
the first woman of that generation to write about her experiences and her life with her father and a piece of the puzzle we don't have yet
malcolm x. as a family man malcolm x. as a personal as a personal figure
there's a story that hasn't been told and a piece of the puzzle that needs to go in there
congratulations to you
thank you so much
pleasure to have you on the broadcast
thank you
thank you for joining us
we'll see you next time
from a. b. c. news this week with david brinkley
now from washington david brinkley
in presidential politics seven months before the election public opinion comes and goes and often it is muddled
and at the moment it seems to be going president clinton's way
the minimum wage for example small business people mostly republicans say if it's increased many low income workers will lose their jobs
but twenty three house republicans broke ranks and they now support an increase and their leadership appears confused and directionless like the gang that couldn't shoot straight
in washington there's always talk often wrong talk that president clinton has gained new political momentum bigger crowds for his speeches more support in congress
but what does all this mean
we'll ask our guests leon panetta the white house chief of staff the house majority leader dick armey of texas two republicans who strongly disagree with each other on the minimum wage representatives christopher shays of connecticut and david mcintosh of indiana
and our discussion with sam donaldson george will and cokie roberts here on our this week program
first a little news since the sunday morning papers
in tasmania the large island south of australia a young man arrived in a car with a surfboard on top took out a rifle opened fire and killed at least thirty people and wounded about fifteen more including children
then he barricaded himself in a house and we have no details yet on what this is all about
in the white house today president clinton will be deposed will give legal testimony with his words recorded on tape
it's a part of the fraud and conspiracy trial of his successor as arkansas governor jim guy tucker and his former business partners james and susan mcdougal
the president was called as a witness for the defense
the lawyers say their questioning will last about six hours
in washington arguments and political disagreements on the minimum wage money budgets and more all of it controversial
here's a. b. c.'s john cochran
john
david when bob dole took some time off earlier this month his strategy seemed pretty clear
go back to washington score some legislative wins and show the voters he is a can do leader
but it didn't quite turn out that way mostly because of republican defections on something dole wanted tax free savings accounts for medical expenses
and something dole didn't want a higher minimum wage
we want a guarantee that a minimum wage is enough with forty hours plus that someone can help support their family
we also believe that raising the minimum wage does not cause lost jobs
the defection of twenty three house members sent republican leaders into a tailspin
though still opposed to the wage increase dole and newt gingrich reluctantly said well o. k. that alarmed not only republican conservatives but lobbyists for small businesses and restaurants
by midweek gingrich had shifted course again
he joined majority leader dick armey in refusing to even consider a higher minimum wage
that left dole looking isolated
democrats smell blood and they are relentless
the vice president brought minimum wage earners to the capitol to plead their case
it is the president's favorite new topic
no one can raise a family on four dollars and twenty five cents an hour
and if we're going to have family values coming out of washington we ought to start by valuing families that are working hard
after two weeks of stalemate in the senate a frustrated bob dole could only fume at the president for his sudden interest in minimum wage
we waited three years into the clinton administration for anybody to even mention minimum wage
at least the president never mentioned minimum wage
since the action on the senate floor the president's mentioned i guess this year minimum wage fifty some times
democrats turned down dole's offer for a vote on the minimum wage if they would wait until june
democrats are confident almost cocky that public opinion is on their side
they also think they may be able to form coalitions with moderate republicans not only on issues like minimum wage but also in the big budget fights ahead
it took seven months and two government shutdowns to end the deadlock over this year's budget
conference report is agreed to
and in the end democrats got more than anyone thought possible last fall
it's not everything we'd like
it's not all the things that we think we need
but given that we were negotiating with a very liberal administration i think it is a remarkable step in the right direction
as republican leaders plan for the next budget clash they can't worry only about what the president will do
just as big a question what will individual republicans do especially those feeling election year pressures
david
john thank you
coming next two members of congress holding very strong views on both of these questions republican representatives christopher shays of connecticut and david mcintosh of indiana in a moment
mr. shays and mr. mcintosh thank you both for coming we're pleased to have you with us
here in the studio with us are george will sam donaldson and cokie roberts
now mr. mcintosh you have an idea for raising the minimum wage in effect by allowing wage earners to keep some of the taxes deducted payroll taxes deducted from their wages allowing them to keep it
what's wrong with that
you know david i think what we need to do is get out of the box of the old way of thinking on this because the old proposal means that we'll lose about seven hundred thousand entry level jobs so i came up with a new idea to say let's take all of the federal withholding for minimum wage earners and allow the employer to pay that directly to their employee
it's about an eighty cents and hour after taxes take home pay pay raise for minimum wage employees and i it doesn't cost us a single job because the employer doesn't have to pay more and it lets us get the job done so that working families can have more income to just spend for what they need
mr. shays what's wrong with that
you support that
well it's a well it's a good idea and i do supoprt it
we also i think should have a training wage a six month training wage
i think also we should link increasing the minimum wage with welfare reform something that the president has vetoed
so david and i agree that we should do those things
where we disagree he thinks the minimum wage is mutually exclusive to this and i don't
mr. shays you've said in effect that the republican party's taking a beating and it's getting a very bad image because it opposes the minimum wage
is there also a problem however that the republican party looks begins to look like a me too party saying we're for what the democrats are for only more reluctantly and slowly
no i don't know how we could be a me too party
we've taken on reforming medicare medicaid
we cut twenty three billion dollars from the budget when the president wanted to add seven billion dollars
so we're not a me too party
the question is do we go over the minefield and throw ourselves on the machine gun nest or do we go around the minefield to take the hill
and i think david's proposal of doing a few things like what he suggested and what i've suggested along with the minimum wage puts this issue to bed
mr. mcintosh those are rather strong military analogies that we're hearing there minefields and machine guns
how much heat are republican members feeling on this issue
you know i think what republican members are feeling is that we need to do something for working families
we've been proposing a five hundred dollar tax credit for children cutting regulations and litigation that make it more expensive for small businesses to create jobs
but what we need to do now is say we're not going to throw out all of these jobs by raising the minimum wage
we're going to use our principles and have a minimum wage tax cut
and be very strong on those go straight up the hill and say our principles work they're good for working families and it's what the american people sent us there to do
you know david as i was coming down to the studio today a young intern who works in my office julian clark handed me his pay stub
and he pointed out that he worked minimum wage about twenty hours a week and he made eighty three dollars
but the government took out enough so that he only got to take home sixty eight dollars
and under my proposal he'd actually get to take home eighty nine dollars
and that's a twenty percent pay hike for him
he said it's a great idea i'd love it if you could do that and he's a young man first job working repairing harleys
and those are the people we have to keep in mind not the politics up on capitol hill but what's it going to do for real workers
mr. mcintosh not to politics
the last time the minimum wage was raised was in nineteen eighty nine
bob dole and other prominent republicans supported it
and i think most people would now look and say that it did not cost many jobs if any
what makes you think that this time it would cost jobs
well interestingly david i went back and looked at some
sam
of those studies and they actually did cost jobs because it was a growing economy so everybody created more jobs
but the states where they have not increased the minimum wage grew even faster
there were about four percent more jobs in those states
so what we need to do is say let's live up to our potential
let's have as many available as possible and let's make sure that we let people have more take home pay
by the way another thing that i think we should do for consumers is cut the taxes on gasoline
you know in california gasoline costs about two gallons two dollars a gallon today
and bill clinton raised the gas tax about four point one cents in ninety three
if we could cut that out as bob dole wants to do that'd let consumers spend more of their money on other things
well let me turn to i'm sorry to interrupt
let me turn to mr. shays who hasn't i mr. shays mr. mcintosh says let's not worry about the politics of this thing but most polls say that upwards to eighty percent of the american public wants an increase in the middle minimum wage
is there anything wrong with saying to the public well if you've looked at it and you want that maybe we ought to do it
well first you are correct
in eighty nine when we passed this law it took a forty five cent increase went in ninety and ninety one there was no decrease in jobs there was no increase in prices because the increase in the minimum wage was so modest
a large increase in the minimum wage would cause unemployment
but this is a modest increase
and so first that's the first issue
secondly three hundred eighty two republicans in one hundred ninety eight and democrats in nineteen eighty nine voted to increase the minimum wage
only thirty seven voted no
this ultimately is goig to happen
let's do it now not it being it's like we're being dragged to the altar kicking and screaming
we've got to deal with it now and put it behind us
well but my question is how why do so many republicans mr. mcintosh apparently is one of them who thinks that just because the public wants something that's not good for them we ought to make certian the public understands that and isn't that just the road to defeat in november
well i don't have any problem with educating the public
and if david feels this way as he does he should take that position
but two thirds of congress support increase in the minimum wage
so we should have a vote and the american will should be expressed by that two third majority
cokie come in here please
there was a cartoon in the papers this week gentlemen that showed bob dole getting in a cab where the cab was marked g. o. p. with the elephant at the wheel
and dole gets in the cab and says where to would seeing the two of you disagree on a vital issue like that does seem to imply that there's not much leadership here
are you seeing a dearth of leadership from the nominee
well first off we have david and i happen to agree on so many issues
i happen to agree on what he's proposing
we just disagree on one issue the minimum wage
we agree on getting our financial house and balancing the budget
we agree on saving our trust funds
but that's not what i'm asking you
and most importantly
i'm asking you about leadership from the nominee
no no you were making an assumption that we have lots of disagreements
and we agree on so many issues
on one issue we disagree
cokie let me say i listened to bob dole last night give a speech here in indiana and he does have a vision for this country
he wants to get a balanced budget he wants to have a tax cut for families he wants to repeal president clinton's gas tax
i think you're going to see bob dole exercise a lot of leadership for republicans
and when we get out there on those items in congress we won't be debating on the democrats' agenda we'll be debating on bob dole's and the republicans' agenda for how to make america great
mr. mcintosh
and i think you're going to see that happen
you were in the administration in nineteen ninety two working for vice president quayle
do you see some similarities between what's happening so far in this election and the election of nineteen ninety two
well you know cokie in ninety two i was working the white house and i was really frustrated because we had some very good ideas for how to move america forward and it was hard to get anybody to make a decision in the campaign yes let's take that issue to the people
we're in a transition period right now where it's somewhat like that
the difference is that bob dole says i do have a vision for this country and we're going to work with the house and the senate and go forward with the american people on how to get people working again how to give people more of their take home pay how to make america great
thank you thank you very much mr. shays mr. mcintosh
thank you both for coming pleased to have you with us
thank you
coming next representative dick armey republican of texas the house majority leader
he will have a great deal to say about all of these questions in a moment
mr. armey house majority leader thank you very much for being with us
pleased to have you
thank you for having me
you know everybody here
before we go on to other topics i want to ask you the question we put to our guests before you
what are your views on the minimum wage
are you for it or against it and what would you like to do about it
well i think you saw great unanimity between our your earlier two guests
in our party we're for raising the incomes and leaving them with more take home pay so they can do more with their families
we're also for them having greater job opportunities
now the way to get there is to lower taxes cut the regulations on the economy and build and grow jobs
the minimum wage does not to that
it's antithetical to these objectives
the minimum wage is an initiative that's been foisted onto the democrats in this year by their big labor friends in washington
and we should remind ourselves we heard nothing from the white house on the minimum wage last for the last two years when they had their party in the majority except how harmful it was
and they didn't do it then because they said it was bad policy
congressman
george
i think the thing we ought to be asking is why is the white house calling on us to do now what they said was bad policy when they had the authority to do it with both the house and the senate
george it's all yours
let's just talk about the votes however
you said you would oppose an increase in the minimum wage with every fiber of your beings being
is your is the fiber of your being up to this
absolutely
doesn't the other side have the votes
first of all remember we have got to take care of everybody's opportunities in this country and protect them
i understand but i'm
i don't see that we can let a republican congress pass a bad idea that hurts the most desperate people in our work force
we have got to reach out to these people and say yes we want you to have your chance to get a job
we will not do something destructive to that
but the democrat contingent plus twenty three or so moderate republicans comes out to a majority doesn't it
can you stop the vote
again i think you clearly see with chris shays' statements when we put something out there that is so much better gives the folks so much more take home pay which we're trying to have for them without the job destructive of a minimum wage increase
you're going to see the republicans are going to come forward and say hey look mr. and mrs. america we got more better for you than the tired old ideas of the democrat party that are only rehabilitated to pay off their big labor bosses in washington
let me ask you a broader question about what mr. and mrs. america must be thinking about this congress that is now about five hundred days old approaching that
four departments were targeted for termination
they all survived
federal government's still running a railroad still funding at an almost normal level corporation for public broadcasting tiny cuts in goals two thousand and the endowment for the arts and all the rest
are you disappointed in what you've accomplished
no actually i'm not
i understood from the beginning the democrat party has the white house and we can't pass anything into law the president won't sign
the president vetoed a balanced budget
the president vetoed welfare reform
the president vetoed our necessary package to save medicare
the president is definitely standing there with his veto pen saying i stand for the status quo yet we managed to as chris shays pointed out when the president was asking for seven billion dollars more in spending we gave him thirty billion dollars less in spending
and we didn't get rid of goals two thousand but we made some substantial reform of the program
you make your gains a little bit at a time and you stay in there
i think we've had an enormous success
we've done some great things
talk about a jobs bill look what we've done in the area for example of telecommunications reform
mr. armey
something the democrats couldn't even get out of committee
all right the fiscal ninety six budget is settled you're planning for fiscal ninety seven in this election year
and the story around town is that your strategy is going to be to put it to the president in ways that he has to veto
let me ask you about a couple of possibilities that you will pass a larger tax cut than he's asked for and say o. k. veto that that you will try to reform medicaid along the lines that you want to combining it with welfare reform and say o. k. veto that now is that the strategy you'll pursue this year
our strategy is to do what we can to get through congress the most responsible best policy aligned with our objectives to reform
but what about those two
two matters that i brought up sir
we still live with some hope that the president will get his actions and deeds in line with all his political rhetoric
he was the man who ttood up in front of the american people and said the age of big government is over
yes but
i need a balanced budget
sir if i may what about the two
now the point of the matter
matters that i
is the president can get serious about
asked about
his work or do just as his own staff says and just talk about it
well what about the two matters i
and we're going to do good policy
asked about
i have no intention
sam go ahead
nor desire to have the president of the united states
well
veto good policy for the american people
well then all right if you want to call it good policy that's your prerogative sir
but what about it
are you going to try to pass a larger tax cut than he's asked for
well i think that wouldn't be hard to do he's asked for so little for the american people by way of tax relief
is the answer yes
we will pass a good tax cut that will respond to the real needs of the american people and we will expect that the president will if he gets out in america and gets in touch with america he'll understand the need for that
he himself self in houston that the largest tax cut in the history of the country that he passed in ninety three was too much
all right o. k.
now i think it's time for him to come to some terms with correcting the mistakes of the early part
i take it
of his administration
i take it the answer is yes
let me ask about the second one that i asked about
will you try to combine
no my answer is first of all i have
oh it's not
i cannot tell you what the president will veto and what he won't veto
no i'm asking about what you'll do sir
i'll be making the best policy
what will you do
i can for my children's future
o. k.
let me ask about the second issue that i brought up
do you plan to combine or hope to combine medicaid reform which is the block grant to the states with a welfare reform in one bill and then say to the president o. k. veto it or sign it
i think we may combine medicaid and welfare reform together
it's really basically the same package and we'll send it to the president i'll say mr. president do your duty to the american people and sign the bill and see if you can't in fact get in touch with reality on this and put your actions on the same page as all your political rhetoric
cokie come in
mr. leader at one point this week bob dole suggested that maybe for next year's budget that he and the president ought to just sit down and one on one negotiate
the white house immediately accepted the offer and then he seemed to back down from it
do you think it's a good idea to negotiate between the two nominees
well i'm sure it's important for the two nominees to talk and try to come to an agreement
but i have to tell you cokie i spent a large part of my life up at the white house in the oval office in these things called budget negotiations and i couldn't be very optimistic about much productive result coming out of these sesions that are really constructs for photo ops for the president's public relations effort
so you don't think negotiating's a good idea
i haven't seen any effort of the president to be serious about balancing the budget and i wouldn't be very encouraged about whether or not bob dole would find very serious discourse up at the white house on those terms
i want to ask you a couple of political questions
first this week bill bennett suggested that bob dole step down as majority leader in order to devote full time to running for president
you're majority leader of the other body
do you see that as something that he ought to do
i think bob dole's the best judge of what he can do
if bob dole could get a little more civility in the senate if senator daschle will stop his obstructionism and stop trying to bushwhack every effort the president puts on or the senate majority leader puts on the floor he's perfectly capable of managing the legislative affairs of the senate while running for president
can he handle the obstructionism of senator daschle
i don't know whether he can do that in either case
senator daschle is clearly seen he being devoid of any ideas for the american people his only acts of desperation can be throwing sand in the gears
let me
and monkey wrenches and trying to stop the process
speaking of question of ideas your leadership this week sent out a memorandum to the members of the republican party in the house saying please come up with anything you can on evidence of big labor being involved in democratic campaigns of anything that you can come up with on waste et cetera
it has the impression of starting an action for a campaign that is anything but positive and it doesn't seem to be a campaign based on ideas if that's the kind of thing you're looking for
well we're deeply concerned about what organized labor's doing with their members' money
i went to church just a couple weeks ago
in my sunday school class one had a young woman who was having to sue her union in order to keep her union from using her money to support campaign things that she doesn't agree with
yes but that's not what i'm asking you
i'm asking you what kind of campaign this presages
i don't know what this has to do with the campaign
it is our oversight responsibility when we have something from the supreme court like the beck decision that protects the rights of working men and women to protect their own dollars from being used against their own beliefs for us to find out what is going at these unions as they abuse the rights of their members
this is a natural necessary oveersight activity
certainly it's been going on for years
and we are charged with finding out whether or not the law of this land is being properly enforced by the agencies of government and like the department of labor or if organizations such as the unions are abusing
so i don't understand why you would connect this to the campaign
mr.
in any more than any other legitimate overisight activity
mr. armey thank you
thank you very much for being with us pleasure to have you
come again
thank you
coming next the democrats' view on all of this from president clinton's chief of staff leon panetta in a moment
mr. panetta a lot of political figures in washington have sat in that chair
we're very happy to have you
and i want to put this to you
most of them when they come say their party is responsible for all success and the opposing party responsible for all failures
are you going to tell us anything like that
no i'm a believer that in this town this country does best when both parties work together to try to find answers that meet people's problems
and frankly we took a step in that direction last week when we passed the appropriations bills finally after seven months
i think the bill we passed was a balanced bill
it took a little give from both sides but in the end it was the right bill and it passed close to four hundred votes on the house side almost eighty eight votes on the senate side
same thing happened with the terrorism bill
i think the same thing can happen with the kennedy kassebaum health care reform bill
i think this place operates best when both parties are working together
all right
george
on the minimum wage i'd just like you to give some advice to one of the interest groups that's opposing you on this and that's the restaurant industry
as you know the profit margins in restaurants are often very small
you want to increase their costs with by increasing the minimum wage
what do you want them to do
should they lower their profit margins or raise the price of a meal
i think the restaurant industry just like every other business in this country has to recognize that we ought to provide a living wage for people who put in a fair amount of work
that's what this country's about
this is not a partisan issue
i you know i heard the debate beforehand
this has been a bipartisan issue
but you can
both parties have supported increasing the minimum wage
but you can understand the exasperation perhaps of people who run restaurants
and they say there's a politician in washington saying we're going to raise your costs you guys figure it out do you have any opinion on what they should do raise the cost of a meal or
look you're talking about people who are earning four dollars and twenty five cents an hour
we're at a forty yeear low with regards to people who earn those wages
we're asking for a forty five cent increase for the next two years a ninety cent increase
you know when c. e. o.s in this country for the fortune five hundred had their salaries doubled from about two million dollars a year to almost three point seven million dollars a year i didn't hear a lot of complaints
and nobody said we're going to lose a lot of jobs we're now talking bout a lousy ninety cents' increase on the minimum wage
if it's a modest increase it is not going to cost jobs
i think these businesses are going to do very well by providing a living wage for their employees
let me ask you about medical savings accounts
it looks as though the conference committee might be shaped by senator dole in such a way that medical savings accounts will be in the health reform legislation when it comes out gets voted and sent to the president
the president has said i guess he'll veto that
it is your position that it is better not to have this extremely popular health care reform with portability of insurance and all the rest than to have medical savings accounts
tell us what is so wrong with medical savings accounts which encourage people give them an incentive to provide for themselves
well first of all we want a clean health care bill
the bill that passed on the senate side passed one hundred to zero
right
m. s. a.s were not part of that
medical savings accounts were not part of that
they were voted down by a majority of the senate
yes but they're
so let's get a clean health care reform bill
if you want to talk about medical savings accounts let's do it in the context of what reforms further reforms we're going to do on health care in the context of a balanced budget
but would you speak to the question of what is so awful about them that it justifies defeating vetoing a bill supported bill one hundred percent of the senate
the main concern we have with medical savings accounts is that they are designed to basically cream the top of the healthy and the wealthiest in our society and therefore increase premiums on those who are sicker and poorer
that's the result of that
mr. panetta this afternoon the president is going to be deposed in the white house in a court case in arkansas involving the mcdougals and governor jim guy tucker
the president is not on trial he's a witness
but the central question has to do with whether he was part of an improper use of a loan
now having said that you can just tell that some of his republican critics are fearing some might even say hoping that he will perjure himself
how has he prepared for this
i he's prepared very well because he has always said he will cooperate
he is as you pointed out a defense witness in this situation
but he has had nothing to hide will have nothing to hide and i think will do very well today
well it's his position as i understand it that he had no part of any pressure on david hale to make a loan that was illegal or improper that he knew nothing about it
his position is that there was nothing improper in their relationship and he will testify to that
all right let me go back to the question of the budget the fiscal nineteen ninety seven budget
you just heard dick armey suggested yes in fact they would roll medicaid reform as they see it with welfare reform into perhaps one bill
how do you like that idea
sam let me tell you i think the best guidance i could give the republicans is don't repeat the mistakes of nineteen ninety five
they did it alone in nineteen ninety five
they basically tried to shoave it to the president said if you don't accept our priorities we'll shut down the government they shut it down twice
they passed thirteen continuing resolutions because they couldn't get the appropriations bills done
they turned off thee american people to their whole contract
i think it's much better if they sit down and negotiate with the president
i'm frankly i'm concerned because a leader of the house leadership john boehner this morning was quoted as saying that bob dole's made the decision that he shouldn't get a balanced budget agreement before november it's not in his political interests
that's terrible
the american people want to see us sit down and do a balanced budget
i think we can do that if we're willing to sit down and negotiate
the president said come on down let's do that and if we do it we can get this done the same way we were able to get the appropriations bill accomplished
but my question combining those two important areas welfare reform and medicaid do you like that
if it's done on a negotiated basis with the president of the united states so that it meets his concerns in those areas sure
we'll we can combine medicare medicaid whatever else
but let's do it on the basis of negotiation
let's not do it on the basis of confrontation
do you think that's likely to happen
it seems cokie like they've made the political decision that they would rather confront the president again on these issues
i think that's a mistake
i think it's a mistake for the american people
we've got a chance here between now and the convention to try to do some good things for the american people
we got the terrorism bill passed and signed
we've got this health care reform bill that is well on its way i think to being done
we were able to complte work on the appropriations bills
we could do welfare reform
we could do a balanced budget
those are significant accomplishments
and then we can go to war between the convention in november
if they try to confront us now on these issues i think it'll be bad for the american people
more importantly i think it's bad for them politically
you say that it is that they shouldn't repeat the mistakes of nineteen ninety five
the one of the former heads of the congressional budget office robert reichauer has been quoted as saying that maybe you've won a few battles here but history will show that the republicans won the war when it comes to the budget
last time you were here you were not able to answer the question of could you balance budget in seven years the congressional budget office scoring
you finally came around to that position
didn't they win
i look like everything else in politics i think leaders show their leadership when they say that you know in effect we've both given a little but we've moved the country forward the reality is the republicans have pushed to try to do additional savings with regards to appropriations and discretionary accounts
we accepted a lot of those savings
at the same time we protected our priorities
the president always said i have nothing with nothing against trying to save money we put a deficit reduction package in that cut the deficit in half
but we want to protect our priorities
we want to protect education
we want to protect
but but is it is it
the environment
giving a little when you are
and we were able to do that
able when you agree to balancing the budget in seven years with their scorers
it seems like it's a lot
i the fact is they pushed for seven years and they pushed that we do it in accordance with the congressional budget office
i think they have something to take to the american people that says that you know we were able to push in this area
democrats on the other hand the president can say yes we were for a balanced budget as well but we wanted to protect medicare we wanted to protect education we wanted to protect the environment and we didn't want to tax working families
we were able to win some significant issues in this budget battle
now if we can put those two together we can do good things for the country
what about repeal of the gas tax
mr. armey this morning called it your gas tax
all right if bob dole suggested that we ought to eliminate the gas tax we suggest that we ought to sit down and negotiate come on down to the white house we're more than willing to talk about that
but what's your position
thirty seconds
negotiation but
well we we
it was he seems
proposed tax cuts
up front about it
we think there are better ways to do tax cuts
we proposed child tax credit
so you're against repeal of the gas tax
no no the fact is we're prepared to discuss it
but i'd like to know what four cents of the ten cents' increase that he voted for does he want to repeal
mr. panetta thank you
thanks very much sorry our time is up
thank you david
thanks for coming
nice to have you with us
nice to be here
coming next our discussion here among ourselves ranging from here to there in a moment
this city is subject to the vapors from time to time
i guess everybody knows what the vapors is are
and
we southern girls certainly do
well o. k.
and at the moment the result of it is that we keep hearing a lot of talk about how dole is in trouble all of his negativees are growing and people will not listen to his speeches and so on and so on
what about that cokie is there any truth in that
well i think that he's had a little trouble getting his campaign on track
but i also think that the republicans around town have been vicious
the he's got the nomination
now it would seem to me that the obvious thing to do is to pull together and get behind the nominee
and instead what you have is somebody like bill bennett sniping from one direction somebody like bill kristol sniping from another direction
and everybody seems to already be writing the stories of it's not my fault that he's lost
why are they doing this sniping
because he's not doing what they want him to do
well they think that he's not doing much of anything and that there's some truth to that
but i don't think that it's terribly helpful for them to be to him for them to be doing this kind of criticism
sam
someone once said we have in this town circular firing squads i mean we just can line them up and it would when it's your turn gets to be mowed down
and it's bob dole's turn at the moment
i think one of dole's problems though is you can think what you like about his positions of his policies
but it's the appearance
it's like that awful speech he gave after the president's state of the union triumph
maybe the speech was o. k. but it was the appearance coming out of the mouth of a cave
and the vision thing i think dole has some sort of vision but he doesn't articulate it
he should have a three by five card like ronald wilson reagan always used and when someone says what's your vision senator pull it out and read it
because he gets in trouble when he starts stammering around about a vision
now i think he has one but unless he articulates it it's fair to say hey what's his vision
you want him to have a three by five card and take it out and read it
it worked for ronald reagan
mr. reagan
well something worked for him but it certainly was not reading off a little card
remember tip o'neill
tip o'neill's first visit in the oval office when mr. reagan became president
tip said he was shocked
he thought it was an informal chat
and mr. reagan pulled out three by five cards and started saying mr. speaker nice to meet you it worked
well he did do that
he did do it yes
well let
george go ahead
the your first question was why are people saying these terrible things about bob dole right now
yes
and the answer is the polls don't look good
there's a poll reported in the new york times this week from pennsylvania that showed for example clinton was preferred in pennsylvania by gun owners which is almost everyone in pennsylvania as far as i can tell
clinton was preferred by veterans in pennsylvania
dole was losing by seventeen points
he's losing in a poll the governor of illinois has taken i don't think it's been released yet
veterans and
by more than twenty points
so these are this is ominous
but it's fixable
well one of the reasons george
well why is
excuse me i didn't
no go ahead
well one of the rasons i think we saw today with all due respect when the republicans on capitol hill do this scorched earth business i mean apprently they didn't learn
i mean they shut down the government a couple of times and the american public rose up and the polls say they didn't like that
and they blamed the republicans
they blamed the republicans
now we hear that they're going to do it again
that can't help bob dole
that's really simple dumb isn't it
well but you george you say it's fixable and i'm curious to hear what you say
because what he's saying what he's what dole is out there saying doesn't seem to me to be a way of fixing it
he's running an old campaign
he's running against judges he's running on a weak defense he's running a sort of classic anti democrat campaign which i'm not sure is going to get across to people this year with bill clinton someplace completely different from where bob dole is aiming his bullets
that's right bill clinton has been pulled by the gravitational pull of the conservative era to the right and he's been very good at this
but the country is more conservative today than at any time since the nineteen twenties
the rhetoric of american politics today favors the republican party
and therefore what bob dole needs is a conservative theme
i'm not sure there are any conservative ideologues in this campaign at the moment and that's what he needs
you think he doesn't have a theme then
i think he
i think he has one but he can't articulate it
i think he has all the beads for a necklace
he now needs a string to put the beads on
and that's the theme
put them together
that's the ideas
but cokie he's right i mean
how come
the movement the thing keeps shifting
you think you have ground and it's shifted
look at taxes
we thought that taxes as in eighty eight as in eighty two as in eight you know eighty six all the off year elections woulds be a big issue
it's suddenly evaporated
well
i don't think it's evaporated
taxes could come back as an issue but where is bob dole on taxes
he's very vulnerable on that subject
he's it's a subject he hasn't been terribly eager to talk about because he's had so many attacks from inside his own party on it
see i don't think he's responsible on taxes
i don't think he wants to cut all the taxes
i don't think anybody ever said nobody said a word about it
debt
bill clinton raised them enormously when he took office and nothing has happened since
except the deficit's gone down
well now clinton raised them on the wealthy and of course he told the wealthy in houston a few months ago that he'd made a mistake
well
which i thought was you know the wrong thing to say
well how has clinton escaped all of this bad news that had been dumped on dole
well i think that
dole and clinton are both
that clinton has been the beneficiary of it and i think that's part of what is the frustration in the republican party as they say is you just heard them saying this morning bill clinton didn't mention the minimum wage for a couple of years
all of a sudden it's a hot democratic issue
now i would argue pat buchanan made it a hot democratic issue by talking so much about wages during the campaign
but also part of the problem is the republicans don't know how to claim victory
the fact is after twelve years of what the democrats called the reagan bush terror in comes a democratic president and three and a half years into his presidency discretionary spending has been cut and defense spending has been increased
the leftward ratchet in government the assumption that government may not always grow but it never contracts happens to have been broken now
well and the whole
the republicans ought to be shouting from the rooftops we won
no instead they want to scorch the earth some more george
well let's
and apparently the american public says you ain't gonna win it this time
and that is bill clinton's biggest hope is that they keep doing that
and he says elect me as the moderate to stop them
sometime today maybe even as we speak i don't know the exact hour president clinton in the white house is being desposed taking giving testimony onto a tape recorder for use in a courtroom in the whitewater case
what do you make of that
well there were three people there were kind of three times he supposedly did it
but there were three people at the key meeting david hale the judge and bill clinton apprently the governor although he denies it and jim mcdougal now mcdougal and mr. clinton will say didn't happen
you know there was no pressure and hale says yes it did happen a three hundred thousand dollar loan and the republicans desperately some of them not all hope that mr. clinton will perjure himself somehow today because he's given sworn testimony before
and if it doesn't mesh he could be in deep trouble
but if it comes to
well
david hale's word versus bill clinton's word i think that the jury is likely to go with the president of the united states
i agree
over a guy who has admitted to all kinds of other difficulties in his truthfulness so
because i can't see the president perjuring himself no matter what the facts are
as another president once told us on the famous tapes just tell them you don't recall
just tell them you don't remember and they can't get you for perjury said richard nixon
george you want to come in here
not really
all right then you don't have to
no perjury george
george we think about some
but i but you know but the truth is if bill clinton says i don't recalld that would be equally as bad for him
it would be very bad
because of what you just said
well he won't say i don't recall whether there was a meeting or not he'd say no or i didn't do this
we don't this tape he is making today may never become public
we may never hear it
oh yes it will
i'll bet you
you think so
like the nixon
the judge is going to make
like the nixon tapes
a decision he's got to make a decision or hear arguments and all of that but if it never became public or in some way we didn't know what was there i think the american public would say
well first of all to be played in the courtroom
cover up
for the jury so it would be public for the people in the courtroom
all right o. k.
to begin with
all right before we go we have to pay some attention and maybe find something interesting to say about the auction of camelot probably the ending of camelot i guess in some sense the sale everybody in the world knows about it
and what was it four million dollars three million dollars
well it ended up being thirty five million dollars
thirty thirty million dollars
thirty four million dollars
thirty four million dollars
of jacqueline kennedy's stuff personal possessions auctioned by sotheby's
but it was quite a scene
cokie what did you make of that
well my first reaction to it was that the children were tacky to do this to sell off their mother's things like that
but apparently it was at mrs. onassis's request and you have to admit
she wanted it done
that it is that she must be giggling
i mean all of those years that people followed her around taking her picture keeping you know her from having any kind of privacy and now she's able at least in death to capitalize on it
i do think that the kids are going to be sorry at some of the stuff they sold off that i don't think that there's probably a grandchild yet to be born who would like the rocking horse that was in the nursery in the white house that kind of thing
well but the kind of money they got
two things
should buy another one
two things evidently are infinite the mercy of god and the fascination of the american people with camelot so called
and i don't quite know why that is
i think it has something to do with the fact that she came along stressing style and manners and good taste
she was sort of a one woman finishing school for a country that felt in the nineteen fifties they'd become rich but rather vulgar tail fins and chrome and all that
and so this is a the political myth of camelot's dead as a stone that is the idea that complicated social problems yield to charismatic executive leadership
but on the social side the idea that the country was softened and ennobled in some way by the kennedy administration is reflected in this tremendous outpouring of nostalgia
george you say camelot
in nineteen ninety four someone paid five hundred fifty thousand dollars for one of teddy roosevelt's hunting rifles
reasonable that's a big bunch of money
in the eighties someone paid two hundred twenty thousand dollars for a letter from albert einstein to franklin roosevelt explaining that maybe atomic energy was something he ought to look into
the interesting thing about that letter to me is that that's something that matters
i'd like to have that letter
and i'd like to have had j. f. k.'s desk on which he signed the test ban treaty
test ban treaty
but fake pearls that cost seven hundred twenty dollars pay two hundred twenty thousand dollars for them
nah
well but i think george is right it is
the thing that was so valuable was that there was a picture of her with those pearls
right
and one of her children playing with them
well i think the point is each to his own
if the people have the money and they wanted to spend it that way whether it's a hunting rifle whether it was an important letter from einstein or whether it's the fake pearls that'll do it
and you know we all loved seeing those pictures again
it really was nice to see the pictures of the kids as little kids and her as a young woman
and the big winner of course is the i. r. s.
there's quite a yes the i. r. s. is a big beneficiary
we'll be back with a few additional words about the onassis auction in a moment
a few final words about the kennedy auction
one of the strangest events in modern times the widow of a murdered president having her personal possessions sold for whatever the market would bring all for the benefit of her children
the prices rose and rose and at the end the president of the auction house sotheby's said with tears in her eyes the total was thirty four point five million dollars
the white house wanted to buy a few things to display in its own public rooms but having to rely on donations and not on public money had to settle for a drawing of a white house reception in lincoln's time couldn't afford anything more than that
one woman among the buyers not loaded with money bought a fairly small and inexpensive piece and in a remark i thought rather touching she said i just wanted to own a little piece of american history
for all of us at a. b. c. news until next week thank you
an army of lawyers converges on the white house today where president clinton testifies in the trial of his former whitewater partners a scene of death and terror in australia where a man armed with a high powered rifle kills at least thirty two people the freemen stand off and the man who would be mediator the story behind bo greitz former green beret and hero of the militant right
from a. b. c. this is world news sunday
here's carole simpson
good evening
we have two important stories tonight one still breaking in australia where a gunman is holding at least three hostages after the worst massacre in australian history
there is at least one american reported among the wounded
we'll have this story from australia in a few minutes but first today's big events at the white house where president clinton has finished testifying in the trial of his former whitewater partner
here's a. b. c.'s jackie judd
just a typical sunday was the message the president tried to convey as he stuck to his usual routine
prosecutors did the same
independent counsel ken starr sent off his team of lawyers without planning to be in on the questioning himself
well i'm not going to comment on what may happen today but this is as i say just another day in the trial
not quite
defendants susan and jim mcdougal went to the white house for what would almost surely be an awkward reunion with their former whitewater business partner
i expect president clinton to deport himself in a truthful and straightforward manner
defense and government lawyers arrived by the carload and headed to the white house map room which served today as a makeshift courtroom
mr. clinton was called to testify for the defense and against the government's key witness
david hale an admitted felon has said under oath that in the mid eighties then governor clinton encouraged him to make an illegal loan to susan mcdougal
i think we will get a vital link in the chain of the search for the truth and that is that there was no pressure from bill clinton to make these loans
today's testimony was videotaped and will remain under seal in this little rock courthouse until it is played for the jury probably in a couple of weeks
the administration is arguing that after the jury viewing only the transcript be released that the tape be kept under wraps
it fears the tape would be used against mr. clinton in an election year by republican operatives like floyd brown
i think that the president's testimony in whitewater is of an important and compelling nature and it ought to be open to the public
i i think i'm on the side of the angels in this one
the president's testimony began in the early afternoon
it lasted about four and a half hours
the defense questioned him for only about an hour and we believe the prosecution had him for the rest of the afternoon
carole
jackie what is the likelihood that the videotape is going to be made public
well it's hard to say
other presidents have testified by videotape in other criminal trials
president carter's tape was not released president ford's was
ronald reagan testified in an iran contra trial
that was after he was out of office
there was no dispute and the videotape was released
in this whitewater trial the presiding judge has given each side thirty days to file their arguments at which point he will make a decision
so nothing right away
number
thank you very much jackie judd from the white house
in another whitewater development newsweek magazine reports that hillary clinton's fingerprints were found on those long missing billing records from her law firm
the records had been under subpoena for two years when they turned up mysteriously in the clintons' private quarters last summer
the white house today said mrs. clinton might have handled them back in nineteen ninety two before they disappeared so it's not surprising her fingerprints might show up
now to the massacre in australia
hundreds of police are surrounding a cottage where a gunman is holding three hostages after killing at least thirty two people
police say the gunman is shooting at them indiscriminately as they try to negotiate with him
the nightmare began earlier today on the island of tasmania when the gunman opened fire at a tourist site that was once one of australia's most notorious prisons
here's a. b. c.'s linda pattillo
this amateur video captured the first shots as the gunman began firing
hundreds of tourists hid in nearby buildings afraid that they would be next
police say the worst massacre in australia's history began after a young man driving a volkswagen with a surfboard on top pulled up at a popular tourist attraction
he chatted with tourists before walking into a cafe and firing
he said there's there's a lot of w. a. s. p.s around today
there's not many japs here are there and then he started muttering to himself and then walked inside and that's when all the all the gunshots started going off
police say he fired deliberately targeting his victims including several children with his high powered rifle
he then barricaded himself inside a guest house with hostages firing at police whenever they got near
the fellow inside the house is firing at them so the situation down there is still extremely dangerous and volatile
police know little about the gunman and even less about what motivated him to inflict such senseless terror
linda pattillo a. b. c. news
a new agreement between the u. s. and israel this time it's about missile defense we'll have that story when we come back
later making ends meet at the bottom of the pay scale
and why is it that a stop at a phone booth leaves one yearning for the good old days
israeli prime minister shimon peres came to washington today to solidify the day old truce with hezbollah guerrillas and to discuss the future of the peace process
back at home israelis are discussing the future of shimon peres
we begin our coverage with a. b. c.'s jerry king in washington
israel's prime minister shimon peres sought and got a u. s. commitment to help his country maintain military superiority over its arab neighbors
and i think it will surely help to a very great extent to defend ourselves against those threats
one recent threat that's very real katyusha rockets fired into israel by arab guerrillas from southern lebanon
the u. s. administration is promising to help israel develop this laser defense system which could destroy a katyusha by melting its surface
the administration will ask congress to provide twenty five million dollars for the project
to combat weapons like the iraqi scud missiles fired at israel during the gulf war the u. s. pledged to use its military technology to provide almost instantaneous warnings of hostile missile launches
and the newest threat looming for israel
iran is reportedly building a network of tunnels to house long range missiles it's trying to acquire from north korea missiles capable of reaching targets inside israel
i think it should be clear to all countries that a provision to provide warning data and provision to provide for the defense of the country is not an aggressive action it's an action to help provide defense
under the agreement signed today the u. s. will send a high level team to israel to explore ways to improve israel's missile defense systems
jerry king a. b. c. news washington
this is bill redeker in israel where thousands of urban refugees came home to border villages in the north today
there were reminders everywhere that security is the number one issue for voters who will go to the polls next month and choose a prime minister
it has been that way for months
when hamas suicide bombers blew up buses here peres lost a sixteen point lead over his hard line opponent benjamin netanyahu
now following the lebanon campaign that ended with no israeli casualties peres is in front again though his five point lead is fragile
an important element is what happens from now on on the security front
will the suicide bombers be prevented from acting during the latter part of the campaign
will the hezbollah refrain from attacking
if not security conscious voters could reject peres and embrace netanyahu whose t. v. campaign which begins airing in a week portrays the challenger as a younger tougher candidate interested in security first then peace
the t. v. commercials for peres have not been released yet but the prime minister has already received help from israel's foremost ally the united states
the u. s. brokered cease fire is widely seen here as throwing a lifeline to peres's campaign
so is his visit today to the pentagon
with security so important to israelis the prime minister is using every opportunity to convince voters they'll be safer if they elect him
bill redeker a. b. c. news tel aviv
in lebanon they began burying their dead today
thousands of people turned out in nabatiyeh for the funerals of nine people from one family
in another front line town the funerals were also a show of defiance
coffins were draped with hezbollah flags and marchers vowed to continue their fight against israel
when we come back why this man may be the key to solving the thirty five day old freemen stand off
in jordan montana today former green beret bo greitz and jack mclam a former phoenix police officer spent a second day trying to talk the radical freemen into surrendering
they're wanted on various charges ranging from fraud to threatening the life of a judge but greitz is suggesting they may be willing to negotiate
brian rooney is there
greitz and mclam were patted down at the f. b. i. checkpoint before they got into a bureau car and drove toward the freemen compound on their own
they got out of the car less than a mile down the road and walked to a point where they were picked up by the freemen and dropped off at the house where they have spent the last two days trying to end the stand off
last night greitz talked about his first meeting
these guys are the salt of the earth
every one of them have sidearms strapped on them they have a gun in every room it would appear but they are not violent people i don't think by nature
greitz was presented yesterday with a legal looking document in which the freemen demanded a grand jury hearing under their own form of common law
it said in part it is not the freemen characters that fear any evidence but it is the feds and state officials who fear our evidence
greitz said even though he has some sympathy with the freemen he has difficulty understanding their legal philosophy
and i said if you guys will work on this to where you get it down where it's english then i'm sure that everyone in the nation would be happy to know what it is that you stand for here
yesterday one resident of the compound did walk out and surrender
stewart waterhouse seen here after an earlier arrest was charged with helping the freemen avoid arrest
white separatist randy weaver has been denied entry to the compound by the f. b. i. although greitz had hoped weaver could deliver a message about the danger of this confrontation having lost his wife and son in his own stand off with federal authorities
it was bo greitz who helped talk randy weaver off a mountaintop in idaho
greitz joked that weaver gave up when he couldn't stand the sound of greitz's voice any longer
here in montana greitz is still talking
brian rooney a. b. c. news jordan montana
bo greitz is a man at home in the public eye
his views are radical but many people are listening so much so that he's become a folk hero for the militant right
more on the man himself from a. b. c.'s john mckenzie
he is one of the most decorated green berets in history a man with sixty two medals and citations but like the freemen in montana retired colonel james bo greitz feels threatened by his own government
the federal government i believe has become our worst enemy
it is supposed to be our great protector
i think the federal government has become a predator
for greitz the transformation began in vietnam
he was an officer in the special forces commanding a so called suicide squad setting ambushes deep inside enemy territory
after the war greitz tried to learn whether american prisoners of war were still being held in southeast asia
he never found any p. o. w.s but he says what he did find changed him forever
he claims that the c. i. a. was part of the international drug trade dealing narcotics to finance secret operations
i was told to erase and forget all that i had found about government drug involvement because it would quote hurt the government and i said whose government
not the government i've worn the uniform of all of these years
today greitz tours the country sounding an alarm that americans are no longer safe from their government
the siege at waco he says is a perfect example and what he is now trying to avoid in montana
that the government like a bunch of storm troopers came in there shot first wearing nazi bucket helmets black uniforms carrying machine guns
greitz takes that kind of threat seriously enough that he started a training program called spike specially prepared individuals for key events
let's say the government decided to take the door off of your hinges
it's the wrong address of course
classes include swat methods and how to engage multiple targets
nowadays bo greitz is openly and bitterly mistrustful of almost anything the federal government does which may explain why the freemen in montana have put their trust in him
john mckenzie a. b. c. news new york
o. j. simpson is heading to britain next month to field questions from some of the toughest debaters in the world
simpson will speak to oxford university's debating society known for grilling heads of state
he'll also appear on the first episode of a new british talk show
simpson is being paid just one pound plus travel expenses
and we'll be back in a moment
on capitol hill minimum wage is the issue that will not die not if the democrats can help it
they want to raise it most republicans don't
they say it's bad for small business
the latest proposal calls for a raise in the hourly wage from four dollars and twenty five cents to five dollars and fifteen cents
an estimated nine point seven million americans make the minimum wage or close to it
a. b. c.'s anderson cooper talked with some american who make a little more than the minimum and are still struggling to get by
in her home in a suburb of rochester new york sue brotz babysits for neighbors and cares for her own four children
last year she and her husband a mechanic earned about forty thousand dollars but found themselves unable to keep up
everything gets more expensive and you just keep trying harder and the extra money i bring in goes to the increase in hay and what you pay for everything
it's like i don't feel like it's getting any better
so six months ago she started to work on the night shift at wegman's a twenty four hour supermarket
she earns five dollars and seventy five cents an hour one dollar and fifty cents above the minimum wage but just enough to get by
well we're somewhere in between you know just pulling along
we're not poor but we're not rich you know
somewhere in between
somewhere in between
hopefully
somewhere in between
on the night shift at wegman's that's where a lot of people seem to be
mike perez works full time at wegman's and part time as a bricklayer long hours that leave him little time for anything else
at times you feel you know like what the heck is it worth it
you know what did i do wrong
thirty years old single and living at home with his mother he hopes to save enough money to one day buy a house
do you think it's possible
yeah
how can it not be
someday i know i'm going to have you know have that
i'll be happy
for many it's hard to be optimistic
nationwide real median household incomes have dropped seven percent since nineteen eighty nine and for those working at wegman's getting ahead is no longer assured even with a college education
i graduated in may of ninety four
i mean we're in ninety six now and here i am
twenty five year old kathy nicastro wants to be a teacher but can't find a full time teaching job
she now works three part time jobs
i don't feel like i'm going anywhere
i mean i'm paying the bills off but i'm not going anywhere
her education has put her nearly thirty thousand dollars in debt
she's not sure it was worth it
if all these people are graduating from college i mean they're spending four years of hard studying to be something and then they can't there's something wrong
something wrong but few on the night shift know what to do about it
barbara stewart is a fifty four year old graduate of cornell university who says she's unable to find anything but part time jobs
i've gone from the middle class down to the underclass
while she's heard the claim that eight point three million new jobs have been created in the last few years she doesn't believe those numbers tell the real story
numbers don't matter
i mean you could have four hundred thousand jobs but if they're all at two cents an hour and part time who cares
there have to those are meaningless statistics
i need a job a full time job so that i can afford to live just from day to day
then i'll worry about the rest
when the night shift ends sue brotz and the others hurry home to catch a few hours' sleep before starting their day jobs
it's not the way any of them planned things to be
it's not the way they want it
but these days it seems they don't have any choice
anderson cooper a. b. c. news rochester
we have this late development on the shooting massacre in australia
police say a gunmen holding three hostages has set the cottage they're in on fire
police had been trying to negotiate with the gunman who earlier today opened fire on a crowd of tourists killing at least thirty two people in the worst massacre in australian history
finally tonight that futuristic world of push button convenience we imagined when we were kids a. b. c.'s jeff greenfield takes a second look now that it's arrived
here with a confession i kind of like a lot of this new technology
i like writing on a computer better than on a typewriter or with a fountain pen and i'd rather get cash from a machine than after a half hour wait on a teller line
but when it comes to telephones that's a different question
number please
thank you
once upon a time there was the phone company ma bell your basic regulated monopoly no choice one bill that was it
then in nineteen eighty four the government broke up the phone company
a. t. and t. did long distance and seven regional companies the so called baby bells handled local service
looks like a. t. and t. is back to their old tricks
that helped bring competition to long distance lots of competition
you probably know those big companies but that's just the tip of the tip of the iceberg
there are more than five hundred companies offering long distance service now and god help you if you find yourself at a pay phone with the wrong company
if you try to use your credit card number with a different company you could wind up like the lady in chicago who made four one minute local calls and got charged thirty dollars
that's right thirty bucks
call one eight hundred rip off
to protect yourself you have to punch in an access code for your phone company then the number you want to call then your credit card
how many numbers is that
that's right thirty five numbers
if it's nice out you can get a tan while you make the call
well i guess that's the price of competition except that now two baby bells out west s. b. c. and pacific telesis are merging and so are the two big east coast baby bells nynex and bell atlantic
am i the only one who sees a definite possibility of a trend here
one more small but troubling point
what's with the names of these companies
s. b. c.
it's a gasoline additive
ameritech
a correspondence school for air conditioner repair
pacific telesis
it's a bunch of guys in california in togas trying to talk to the dead
and nynex
isn't that what you put on your face to fight pimples
i'm telling you if just one of these giant companies would call themselves joe's phone company i'd sign up with them in a heartbeat
i'm jeff greenfield
and that's world news sunday
tomorrow on good morning america an interview with israeli prime minister shimon peres
i'm carole simpson
have a good week and good night
welcome to the program
the south has changed and still it remains the same as a resurgence of the violence that was so prevalent during the civil rights movement
back then it came in response to quiet demands for equality and justice
today many think it's caused by a new wave of hatred and intolerance in this country
the atlanta based center for democratic renewal counts forty seven black churches fire bombed or vandalized across the south
so far no lives have been lost so far
we're talking about why this is happening
what must be done to stop it and about what this wave of violence says about us as a nation
before we meet our panel here is some background
september nineteen sixty three birmingham alabama four young black girls die in a dynamite bombing of a church an act that became a symbol of the racial hatred that divided america a generation ago
january nineteen ninety six knoxville tennessee a black inner city church burned to the ground one of dozens in recent years
we found accelerants
we found numerous molotov cocktails
we found gunpowder
we found gasoline cans and numerous other items of evidence at the scene
evidence of the deliberate nature of these fire bombings nearly fifty of them in seven states
in tennessee at least five black churches have been fire bombed in the past six months
just the devil's job
he has his job
we just have to realize that he has his job
but our god is greater than those little people with little sick minds
there's no proof the bombings are orchestrated
in thirty three of them there've been no arrests
those who have been arrested are all white males
still the government is hesitant to call these hate crimes
quit trying too discount the racial perspective
quit trying to deny
and last week the christian coalition made it clear that they believe the bombings are racially motivated
the terrorists who perpetrated these crimes against our african american brothers and sisters may have believed that we would remain silent
well they can think again
to the bigots and the racists who committed these acts we are putting you on notice
these bombings began about six years ago
so many who have been affected by them say they are sad reminders of a time they thought had long passed
for both sides i'm lee thornton
with us is reverend earl jackson of the christian coalition ron daniels of the center for constitutional rights a new york based civil rights think tank and from knoxville reverend david upton of the inner city church one of the churches which was destroyed
welcome to all of you
ron daniels starting with you give us a capsule of what you see as a pattern in these fire bombings
well i think the pattern reverend jackson are several
number one as it was indicated in the piece there've been a number of these bombings and all of them have been against black churches and all of the people who have been arrested are folks between the ages of sixteen and forty five and they've all been white
not only have they been white in many instances there are indications of klan rallies having been held prior to some of the fire bombings hate mail hate literature and things of that nature that have gone on
the other part of the pattern is that in many instances they've been clustered two three four within a three or four day span and they've been intensifying with that since nineteen ninety four
in fact in tennessee
since when
there've been fifteen in tennessee alone since nineteen ninety four
but you're suggesting that it really broke because of the promise of reggie white who was of course the associate pastor of reverend upton's
right and this is one of the again a curious phenomenon because i argue that america is in denial on the question of race and this domestic terrorism and had it not been for reggie white in a very visible way being the person that he is taking the advantage of the pro bowl actually to not just be an athlete but to a proponent for civil rights and for human rights in this society saying look there's something going on here
and he not only talked about his church and every time reggie and reverend upton have talked about this they have then brought attention to this broader pattern of racist violence that's been occurring throughout the south and now spreading to the north by the way
reverend upton reggie white of the green bay packers is a member of your church
he's associate pastor what has been the impact of this fire bombing on your church and to others in the greater knoxville area
well the impact reverend jackson we have lost
our church is more than just a sunday morning service and a wednesday night service we are we believe in empowering our people our community
we had a radio station which employed seven people
we lost our radio station
we lost our job
we had a child care center that was was to open up in february to create thirty eight new jobs
we lost those jobs so this affects our church plus it affects the empowerment of our community because we want to see our community to be rebuilt
we're in the east knoxville area where there's people had moved out years ago and we're there to try to empower this community and we lost jobs and we lost not just a building by itself but to me without jobs people have a hard time making a living
we're in our community to empower and to increase jobs in our community and we lost them
do you think that because you are doing all of this this is what made you target
i believe so
i believe so reverend jackson
in many instances too reverend jackson that has been a part of the problem is pastors who are outspoken churches that have been at the very heart of their communities have been the targets
reverend earl jackson you represent the christian coalition
the christian coalition has not been very outspoken about on matters of racial justice
in this instance ralph redeferred to those perpetrators as terrorists and bigots
why such strong language
well actually for a number of years the christian coalition has been trying to set a tone of moral outrage about racism in the face of myths and lies about it being a racist organization and this is one of those opportunities that ralph reed had to say in clear and unequivocal terms
we have a set of beliefs
those beliefs do not include dividing ourselves by race
we believe that the god who died for blacks died for whites and we love our brothers and sisters who are in whatever condition they are in but particularly we're going to respond to those who are in trouble as these churches are in the south
but but he also says something interesting in a sense that the f. b. i. and the a. t. f. was unfit to investigate and should back off
what would be the reasoning in asking the government to back off in their investigating
well actually i made that statement at the press conference and it wasn't that they were unfit to investigate
what we said was when the a. t. f. has investigators who have been part of the good old boys roundup and you have people who have been involved in racist activities investigating the burning of black churches then that investigation lacks credibility
there needs to be a house cleaning
we were told that certain investigators have been shifted around and what we said was you don't need a shifting you need a shaking and those people need to be simply removed from law enforcement if they can
should the government the point is if the government does not assume an aggressive role in the investigation
it should
then who will
oh oh listen i think we're calling for a more aggressive role but a clean one and one that will be credible
we're not saying oh leave it alone
we're saying look let's make sure that it's a credible investigation and you don't have people doing the investigating who's bonafidees come under question because they're involved in racist activities
you know reverend upton this reminds me in the sixties when dr. king challenged the f. b. i. and said that they were not really searching for those who had killed serrano goodman and chaney the two jews and the black who had been killed in philadelphia and mississippi and hoover called him a damn liar
the government then reacted to him for exposing this
do you think the government in nashville could do in knoxville or in tennessee could do more to find those who have done the bombings and could catch them
reverend jackson i agree with my brother in some extent about it's hard to have credibility with an agency when you know they're involved in racist activities
now we have been assured there are some things we cannot say because of our legal counsel
there's a lot of investigation going on now at the present and we felt like a lot of this investigation have been targeted towards the blacks
we have information we get information to lead to question as to why which we thought was not properly attended to so i know there could be some more thorough investigation towards not just on the black community but on the whole community
and reverend upton i think it's important to say reverend jackson that other pastors have experienced the same thing where the law enforcement agencies have targeted more the pastor and the church than targeting the likely perpetrators of these crimes
you know but reverend jackson when the good old boys network was exposed as a part of a racist pattern the christian coalition was relatively silent was absolutely silent why do you think it's speaking out now
is this something new
no look the christian coalition has a set of issues that it is committed to and i think you know as the head of an organization that you can't speak out on every issue but what the christian coalition has done and i'm honored to be a part of it is ask for my leadership and my guidance in helping it to understand how to better relate to black christians out there and black churches out there that are overwhelmingly supportive of the of the primary agenda of the christian coalition which is pro life and pro family
does that ron
i think will all due respect another part of the issue here is not just the church fire bombings because it is in fact a symptom of a broader set of causes and those causes really go to this attack on affirmative action
it is the mean spiritness that began to emanate with the reagan administration in terms of blaming the victim of suggesting that people who are on welfare are the real burden in this society the attacks on immigrants and this whole pattern of
well that's a misunderstanding of the policy
and in excuse me
that's a misunderstanding of the policy
and then we talk about credibility and really for the christian coalition to come forward on this issue in a sort of johnny come lately fashion is almost like the proverbial wolf in sheep's clothing because if you talk about credibility the christian coalition as it relates to issues affecting black people and poor working people has a very poor record and i just have to say that because it seems to me it's kind of opportunistic what you
according mr. daniels to you according to your point of view but that to me is like watching somebody throw a rope to a drowning man and say oh well i don't think you should be doing that because i don't trust you
the fact of the matter is people are hurting we are trying to help them
the christian coalition has brought me let me finish if you will i've been a pastor in the community for sixteen years
i don't carry anybody's water
i am doing this because i believe it's important to bring black and white christians together
i don't know how involved you are in the christian community but the scripture i studied teaches us that jesus christ died for all of us black and white and we are trying to come
i think he says for example last week bob grant was fired from w. a. b. c. in new york because he had referred to welfare mothers as maggots to hope that magic johnson's h. i. v. would mature into aids more quickly and finally suggested some celebration that ron brown had been killed in the airplane
that was real visible
he had been talking that kind of talk for a long time but the christian coalition which is operating in new york never said a thing why
so in other words what you're saying is that any issue of race that occurs that you feel is important the christian coalition should speak out on it
what i'm telling you is that even i as a pastor am unable in my local community to speak out on every issue that impacts the community but what i can tell you this that dr. ralph reed spoke from his heart and i'm speaking from mine when i say that we are trying to bring christians together black and white and yes our world view mr. daniels is very different than yours
now you i know because you want to define the interest of the black community by your ideology
i don't define it that way and therefore
i'm just saying
and therefore therefore i think that i can relate to people who share a common world view and see a common concern about the family and about the negative impact of welfare on the family without being hateful and racist
no no i i certainly you are to be commended for coming forth in this particular instance and standing with the black churches
the point is that many of us believe that the mean spiritedness of the reagan administration and indeed some of the policies being put forth by the christian coalition and a range of other institutions on the right have contributed significantly to the atmosphere that is producing in fact the hate that is driving people
reverend upton are the white churches in your opinion consistent in their fight for racial justice and racial security
reverend jackson since the bombing of our church i've had great support our local white churches
but a lot of time it takes an impact like this to happen before you can see the unity in a community
now we have had great a great support phone calls i've shared some larger white churches and which i realize which i related to the members had not been for the fire bombing i probably never get a chance to speak at that church
but they want to show us that they're behind us they're with us they want to support things for unity and i believe there on the verge now
there's a lot more they can do
you're always going to have the silent majority but we have seen quite a few
thank you
reverend we're going to take a break right now and reanalyze is the government moving at all to priortize the growing menace of domestic terrorism
we'll be right back
victims of racism know what it feels like
nobody has to tell us if it is or not
we're very clear about what is racist violence
this is domestic terrorism
we recognize these crimes as very serious ones ones that require and warrant federal response
we've put a tremendous amount of resources on these and have given it a lot of attention
welcome back
the subject is the black churches in the south which are being destroyed by fire bombs and vandalism
it's a wave of violence that speaks of a part of the past that's still very much with us
my guests are reverend earl jackson of the christian coalition which has come out against the perpetrators of these crimes and against the government's role as investigator ron daniels of the center for constitutional rights he says this nation is in denial over domestic terrorism and from knoxville reverend david upton
his inner city church was one of the those which was destroyed by a bomb and by fire
ron daniels so far the governor has been unwilling to characterize these as hate crimes
if these were synagogues or a mosque do you think they would refer to them as hate crimes
of course they would
there would be no question if they were synagogues or white churches that the assumption is it's anti semitic and as they should be and i think in this instance when we go for example to reverend upton's church where you have scrawled on the walls kill all niggers white is right i mean i can't imagine why this is not considered bias race violence and yet again this country is in denial and we are demanding however not only that janet reno and secretary rubin but hopefully the president of the united states himself who can of course to legitimately abroad to talk about terrorism will also see fit in a moment of crisis to take the high moral ground to declare this domestic terrorism and
reverend jackson should this be declared hate crimes
let me strike a note of accord here because we've had some discord
we we had one instance in which four churches in the baton rouge louisiana area four churches four black churches burned down in one night
preliminary investigation came back all black churches this is not racial
well come on that's kind of strange credulity
i agree with you entirely
something racial is going on here
it needs to be acknowledged as such and our law enforcement officials need to do that and proceed accordingly
reverend jackson it is a good thing reverend upton forgive me please i've got jackson on the brain here today it is a good thing that these churches are now begining to come up to the plate and stand up to the matter of fire bombings but isn't that a climate in the atmosphere now of race bating and targeting of blacks in terms of arrests and denial of opportunity that contributes to this climate and would you challenge these churches to join with you on the broad agenda of racial justice
yes sir
reverend jackson as you said all the arrests being made up to date up to date been all white males and we believe in some cases all the investigation towards the blacks is to try to to be to try to bring up a black suspect but i think with the racial graffiti we had on our walls we received pamphlets with racial tones
all these things point towards racism and yet and still day one the first day our church was on fire the agent made a statement it's not racially motivated
so i think i see a pattern there just try to keep the church silent in saying it's a racial attack but all the places i've been to and we just came back from birmingham alabama we visited the churches in boze alabama you see the same pattern
they say there's no similarities but to me there's got to be similarities when you see no other churches are black
reverend jackson since there are these attacks now on blacks the black churches are fire bombed the attacks on denying of black children their fair share of education denying blacks their fair share of jobs will the coalition become more aggressively a part of a coalition to fight for racial justice generally
well the coalition is certainly extending a hand of friendship and love particularly to black christians out there who we know from the data are fundamentally conservative in favor of prayer in the schools in favor of pro life or in favor
we're talking about five churches right now
of family values and are certainly standing fully against any violence against color
i'm going to come right back and we're going to end this
we will come back with some final thoughts in just one minute
we'll be right back
reverend upton to a lot of people what they see now the church bombings the race hurt hostility it looks like a throwback to the fifties and sixties are we going backwards
yes sir
i believe this move to try to silence the church in our black communities the church is one of the strongest voices in your community
if you stop that church from talking out the spirit of fear is trying to come against our bodies that we're not going to let the fear stop us
we're going to speak up and speak out and do things to empower our communities
earl jackson is it the throwback in time
no i believe that our weakness has got strength and i see the glass as half full
white communities are responding
the christian coalition is responding
all over this country it's saying this cannot stand
i see this as a glorious opportunity for us to come together in a great new way and i believe the vision is alive that we will be judged not by the color of our skin but by the content of our character
ron
i think it's not only a throwback to the sixties in some ways it's a throwback to the late one thousand eight hundred nineties and it's a very dangerous tendency and in part it's dangerous because we also have new accommadationists in the spirit of booker t. washington who in some ways are also giving legitimacy to the
that's a shot at me and i resent it
it's personal and you shouldn't do it
silence in high places is betrayal
we must speak out for racial healing racial justice and inclusion
i want to thank all of my guests and thank you for watching
be right here next sunday with both sides of another important issue
that's five thirty eastern
see you then keep hope alive
i'm martin savidge at c. n. n. center in atlanta
we have been watching the tragic developments of what has been taking place in australia the island of tasmania
a gunman has killed at least thirty two people in the community of fort arthur
after he opened fire he then hid himself inside of a bed and breakfast with at least three people hostage
that bed and breakfast now on fire
we are not aware of what has happened who the hostage is or to the fate of the gunman
we'll continue to keep you posted and watch developments as they occur
there were at least twenty people who were severely wounded in that assault
more later
hello
i'm martin savidge at c. n. n. center in atlanta
in australia we have been following the story of a gunman who has killed thirty two people at a popular tourist spot on the island of tasmania
now that gunman has been holed up for the last sixteen hours inside of a bed and breakfast near fort arthur
we are being told now he has set that place on fire
no word of the hostages he was supposedly holding but gunfire has been heard
for the very latest now we go to john raedler who joins us on the telephone
john what can you see
martin bear in mind that the news media are being kept several kilometers away from this cottage because of the dangerous and potentially volatile siege situation which has been unfloding there
but the latest i can tell you is this the siege appears to be over
we're just getting local media reports here who are in turn quoting police sources as saying that the man has been taken into custody
we cannot get confirmation of that directly from the police at the moment but several australian media organizations are saying now that they have been told by police sources the gunman has been taken into custody
this follows a dramatic sequence of events in the last half hour or so in which the cottage where this gunman was holding two or we believe three hostages
a fire broke out there
the fire started in the attic of this two story cottage
it spread then to the lower floor
a police helicopter was seen to approach and land near the cottage
the cottage apparently was well ablaze and we are now hearing it reported fairly widely on australian media outlets that the gunman has been taken into custody
fate of the hostages we don't know at this stage
all right john
we will continue to keep in close touch with you
we will have developments as warranted
that was c. n. n.'s john raedler in port arthur
again the gunman who apparently has killed thirty two people after a sixteen hour standoff has reprotedly been taken into custody no word on the fate of the hostages
more news as warranted
a major exhibits of portraits by pablo picasso is on display in new york
c. n. n.'s michael okwu takes a look
to his contemporaries his work was simply the standard gems from a craftsman who mastered art's modern movements from surrealism to cubism and neoclassism
once you thought that you had wrapped picasso up into this category that ism you name it suddenly he hits you again this is a head on assault and it's just raining in every direction
it's raining portraits two hundred twenty one of them at new york's museum of modern art
curators are billing it as the first comprehensive survey ever assembled of the master's portraiture
drawn from private as well as public collections many of the works are being shown publicly for the first time
it reveals in a very personal way dimensions of picasso's life and his character and his artistic interests that never before had been revealed
his son claude
he tried to capture in it the speed at which children's feelings can change from absolute delight to the depth of despair
his first wife olga during happy times and when the honeymoon was over
here bather with beachball a rendition of marie therese voltaire the object of picasso's secret affections
very softly rounded forms
he obviously saw her as somebody who was nurturing
here a contrast of emotions
two pictures of women reclining painted on the same day in nineteen thirty nine
voltaire and dora moore a painter picasso knew
and here again voltaire as a still life
picasso's able to transfer his thinking and his feelings about an individual to a concept
i think i got to know him better as a human being
he hated women and it shows in all the portraits
but perhaps he was most honest most brutal as he aged reflecting on the totality of his life each self portrait haunting a death mask
these are pictures i think of a man still struggling to come to grips with his own genius
michael okwu c. n. n. new york
a gunman has killed at least thirty people is now surrounded by police on an australian island of tasmania
at least twenty people were wounded
the massacre occurred at the port arthur historic site
some of the wounded were airlifted to nearby hobart for treatment
witnesses say the man opened fire on hundreds of tourists apparently at random
the gunman holed up in a house near the site is believed to be holding a hostage
authorities say they are negotiating with him
the police have been recalled in large numbers
we've got two hundred police recalled to duty
and all of the people who have been injured have now been transferred to the hobart hospital
others are on the way
and the police are now in numbers down there dealing with the terrible scene down there and as well as that trying to do what they can to apprehend the offender
port arthur is southeast of hobart on the island of tasmania off the southern coast of australia
at least thirty people are now confirmed dead in port arthur tasmania after a gunman went on a shooting rampage in that city's historic district firing an automatic weapon at random
more than a dozen people have been injured and have been rushed to hospitals some to hobart tasmania
a reporter interviewed on c. n. n. says the gunman is holding three hostages and is surrounded by two hundred police officers
tasmania's premiere says everyone is shocked about what's happened
this is something that's beyond the comprehension i think of any tasmanian
it's just a dreadful massacre and of course it is still going on and we can only support the police
i have thrown all of their resources into dealing with the problem and as they go through that tonight we as a government fully support what they're doing and i'm sure every tasmanian does
joining us now by telephone from tasmania is win t. v. reporter trevor sutton
trevor what is going on now in the situation with the hostages behind held
is there any movement on that front
no joie
it's still the same at the moment
there's a bit of a stand off situation with the gunman
we have found out that he is armed with a high powered automatic rifle it's fitted with a nightscope so the police are taking all precautions
but he still has three hostages we believe an elderly man and his wife plus another male
they're in the house at the present time which is a seascape holiday village which is on the tasman peninsula about eighty kilometers from hobart
so this is truly a popular tourist destination as well you might expect that some of the people who were injured might be tourists not only from that area but from other places in the world as well
well port arthur itself is a penal colony and the penal colony itself is probably one of the most popular tourist destinations in australia
it certainly is the most popular in tasmania
this particular area is a bit cut off from the land by a little bit of a little split of land there
yes a little tiny narrow nick of land and originally a penal colony port arthur was the site of australia's first convicts
and this penal colony actually existed quite well because anyone who escaped from the penal colony had to get across that little nick and it was virtually impossible
they had a set of dogs across there in the early days which is only about thirty feet forty feet wide and of course that prevented anybody from getting back
so the land that we're seeing there the place in the pictures where we saw the police officers with their guns as well this is an area that they've closed off to other civilians and to reporters as well
you're not able to actually get down to the place where the house is
no joie
no one is allowed into the area at the present time
there are about two hundred police officers down there
they've got all the roads cordoned off
people can't get back to their homes at the present time so they're trying to sort of contain the situation by trying to get this gunman before he can do any more damage
just to bring you up to date on the death toll the death toll now stands at confirmed numbers thirty two fifteen still injured
thirty two and fifteen still injured
are they talking about the seriousness of the injuries of those people
yes there are possible more fatals as well
all right trevor thank you very much for joining us
trevor sutton from win t. v. joining us from tasmania
so you've been out to a dude ranch
what was it like
well i got engaged at the dude ranch
aww
so it was rather romantic it was a wonderful thing
it did not involve a dogie though
and i gained at least ten pounds
and a wife
it was good food
and a wife yeah
so i did all right
as a net some gain i'd say
there's one in tucson that our travel guide folks have checked out
steve nettleton took a ride
the sun rises high above arizona's sonoran desert
the horses are hitched nearby their riders waiting and watching
a lone cowboy approaches but he's not packing a six shooter
the only outlaws here are prickly suaro and choya cactus
and this cowboy is actually the corral boss for one of the west's oldest working ranches the tanque verde ranch
this all inclusive resort is about a half hour from downtown tucson
it's just one place that offers ordinary folks a tame version of the wild desert
the guided horseback ride winds through a maze of sagebrush rocks and towering cacti
but it also features a few things you don't usually find in the middle of a desert like a brunch al fresco including eggs biscuits and flapjacks
and once riders finish stretching their legs and their stomachs they return to the saddle and head back to the ranch
while the ride can be rough for some the lodgings at tanque verde are anything but
rates run between two hundred forty five dollars and two hundred eighty five dollars a person per night but the price includes all meals and activities
today humans aren't the only guests at the tanque verde ranch
the sonoran desert is also home to many creatures like rattlesnakes scorpions and black widows
ranch operators hope that by bringing people nose to nose with these dreaded creatures they'll forget their fears
but for most guests it will likely take more than one get acquainted session before they feel at home with their new fanged desert friends
for c. n. n. sunday morning i'm steve nettleton
this week the new york state teachers' retirement system ordered the sale of all of its tobacco investments
it became the second large pension system to do so
and that decision came just after the american medical association took aim at the industry only the latest in a series of assaults on tobacco makers
doctors and government health officials used to concentrate their efforts on asking individuals to quit smoking but no more
tobacco is an economically ruinous enslaving product that has brought misery pain disease and death
how can we allow any of our hard earned money to support such an effort in this industry
now the medical profession is going after the tobacco industry itself
this week the america launched a campaign to ask americans not to invest in stocks of tobacco companies
it also released an economic analysis downplaying the effects of closing down tobacco companies
the industry says putting it out of business will only cause more misery
one of the problems with this analysis is that is says it's going to take oh six or eight years for these jobs to be replaced for these workers to find jobs
what happens to them in the meantime
how do they pay the mortgage
how do they pay medical bills
what about their families
the new move against tobacco comes amid a backdrop of mounting federal state and class action lawsuits against the industry
one huge class action suit now under way in new orleans claims that the tobacco companies knowingly manipulated nicotine levels to foster addiction
the case has been strengthened by a number of leaks of internal company documents
this past week the group action on smoking and health or ash released what it says is a tape that proves the industry knew how to make a less carcinogenic cigarette
ash says the tape includes comments by a high level phillip morris executive about reducing carcinogens in cigarettes
ash made the tape available to the food and drug administration
the f. d. a. is already investigating whether tobacco industry executives lied to congress about nicotine manipulation
meanwhile the medical reports about smoking continue to emerge one new federal study highlighted by the america found that eighty eight percent of americans have significant exposure to tobacco smoke much of it second hand
and it's not the same as the smoke that a person breathes in
some of the tobacco smoke carcinogens are twenty to thirty times more concentrated in environmental tobacco smoke than they are than in mainstream smoke that the smoker inhales through the filter
at a shareholders' meeting this week the chairman of philip morris fiercely defended his company
he criticized the news media for not checking its facts and he said the f. d. a.'s accusations against the industry are in his words just pretext to advance its agenda
cigarette makers are reporting healthy profits and their stocks are still considered a good buy
diana temple a tobacco analyst at salomon brothers investment company is with us from washington to discuss the financial side of the industry
and joining us from new york is philip hilts a writer on health policy for the new york times and the author of the book smokescreen
welcome to you both
ms. temple i'd like to begin with you
the a. m. a. is a very respected very powerful organization representing doctors
when an organization like that comes out and says divest of your tobacco investments what is the impact
i think some of the states are looking at the public policy issue but the mutual funds have to compete to show good performance in terms of stocks or they lose money
so i think the mutual fund industry is going to have a much more critical eye on this
right now i calculate the litigation discount at phillip morris at over one hundred billion dollars
if there were not all these worries the stock would be substantially higher than the eighty seven dollars it is
the litigation discount
so what you're saying is the price right now currently reflects the fact that there is all this uncertainty
so that's why it's still on your buy list
it's we're recommending it
the u. s. tobacco component is valued at zero times earnings right now
and their international business is about thirty five percent of the total and growing sharply
and if this costano class action lawsuit is decertified we could see the stock jump ten or twenty percent
all right mr. hilts why don't you we're getting into a little bit of jargon here on the costano class action lawsuit
why don't you explain that and explain how that fits into the big picture
the costano suit is the biggest action against the companies by plaintiffs claiming damage because of smoking
it involves sixty different law firms in new orleans and it involves a budget like six million dollars a year
so it's a very big action
so if it is decertified as she says that means it'll be knocked out of court
if it's not decertified it may go ahead and the companies may lose it
but of course this is not the only one
there are now more than dozen different cases out in court different strategies not just the smokers fighting against the companies but the states fighting against the companies
and until very recently none of the tobacco companies had settled any of these lawsuits out of court
one of the smaller tobacco companies just did so sort of breaking ranks
what's the significance of that
it's mostly psychological significance because the industry for forty years has been very proud of the fact that they have not paid out a dollar to an injured smoker
there have been something like seven hundred different suits and they have won them all in the end
but what happened now is you're having some jockeying inside the industry some serious concern about what is going on
and as a business move the liggett group decided to offer the possibility of the settlement
what
go ahead
what i'd like to comment on is it was actually a plaintiff's attorney don barrett who having been in court against the tobacco industry for over ten years was not able to get any kind of judgment and he broke ranks with the other plaintiff's attorneys to try to reach a settlement that would be financially advantageous for his group
is this in any way indicative of a change of strategy among the tobacco companies
are they ready to make some kind of deal with parties who are suing them or the government to try to come up with a way of protecting themselves against lawsuits
not yet no
maybe possibly accepting some more government control
is that a possibility
i think it
it's a possibility but they're not actually ready to do that now
their strategy is that in the long run they're aware that they're going to lose this in one way or another
there are going to be fewer smokers there's going to be more regulation
but their best situation financially is to wait until they're forced to that position not to jump to it themselves
i think
ms. temple go ahead
i think that the industry firmly believes that they will win that there's a substantial probability that costano will be decertified
so far in court when we see a lot of these when the evidence is presented in court juries are not very sympathetic to smokers and i expect that trend to prevail
all right
now let's talk
that's all a reflection of the past though
the situation is quite changed
all right
let's talk about the possibility of actually having criminal charges filed against the c. e. o.s of some of these companies
perjury is a potential charge and there's also potentially the charge of misleading people
and these would be s. e. c. type charges
mr. hilts explain that first of all
could these people potentially go to jail
yes they could the former c. e. o.s
they were c. e. o.s in nineteen ninety four when they testified before congress in washington and they said a number of things like nicotine is not addictive cigarettes are not hazardous one of the things that william campbell said the c. e. o. of phillip morris was we don't really pay that much attention to nicotine
it just is kind of a natural product and we test is once and then eighteen months later just before it becomes a cigarette well the documents we have now and the testimony from the people who actually measure the nicotine in cigarettes suggest that they measure it hourly every day
they pay close attention to it and they adjust it when they need to up or down
ms. temple when you
so this is a possibility of perjury
when you talk to people in the tobacco industry is there a lot of concern that they are in a tough legal position in this case
they've been in a difficult legal position for a long time because of our the way our society works
but on the nicotine content issue if you look at nicotine content and tar content since the fifties the trend has been down and
that's a mistake
that's incorrect
i disagree with you
the numbers will show that
yeah that's just a mistake
the trend of the light cigarettes the nicotine to tar ratio has been going up in the last ten years
all right
well why haven't we seen a safer cigarette brought to market
we have
we saw premier the smokeless cigarette in nineteen eighty nine which r. j. r. invested several hundred million dollars in and the consumers didn't like it
they didn't like the taste and they rejected it
right now on the market there are cigarettes with virtually no nicotine
if people want a nicotine free cigarette they've got it
all right well
but they choose not to smoke
there are not you know nicotine cigarettes on the market at all and the only one that was ever put out there was dropped very quickly
all right
well ms. temple i mean let me get you on record here
the cigarette companies how frequently how often do they measure the amount of nicotine in their product
i mean they're making a product i guess it's probably safe to assume that they're checking what goes in it right
i would say they probably measure the nicotine content as frequently as kellogg's measures the sugar content in some of its cereals or coca cola measures the sugar content
which is probably all throughout the process right
i would imagine that it also there is a legal requirement that if you specify that the tar content is ten milligrams that that given pack of cigarettes has to have that same tar content
all right
well mr.
or they're in violation of federal law
well mr. hilts explain why that is so important because what we're talking about here is whether cigarettes are a drug delivery system right
yes
the issue of nicotine has nothing to do with the federal law
it's just a question of they need to have a certain amount of nicotine to satisfy the customers
they have denied that
and the central issue is is nicotine a drug
do the companies put it in there and keep it at a certain range in order to get it into the customers to satisfy them
if they do that then that under the law is defined as a drug if that's there intent
nicotine is
and if it is the case then the f. d. a. is required under the law to regulate
nicotine is naturally occurring in tobacco
if we just used pure tobacco the nicotine content would be a lot higher
as a matter of fact one of the reason american cigarettes are preferred overseas is they're a lot milder than say the galwas of old
all right
well ms. temple given the mood in this country right now do you expect there will be further regulation of the tobacco companies and what would the financial impact be
the a. m. a. did a study saying that even if the tobacco industry were to disappear those jobs would actually be created elsewhere in the economy because people would have more money to spend on other things
i think first of all we could well see some pressure for some sort of nicotine regulation and greater monitoring of nicotine content
i don't think you see the cigarette industry outlawed
prohibition did not work with alcohol
i don't think it would work with cigarettes
mr. hilts do you ever see a day when the tobacco industry will disappear in this country
number
it'll always be here both serving people in this country and even more so people in other countries
they'll be pushing cigarettes around the world for a long time
all right
thank you very much
philip hilts and ms. temple diana temple we appreciate you both coming in this morning
he's been long fascinated by jazz even though his own art is visual
jacque lowe is a photojournalist who's best known for his photographs of john f. kennedy
he recently turned his camera on the world's great jazz musicians to produce jazz photographs of the masters
jacque lowe is with us today from new york
good morning and welcome to you sir
good morning
i'm curious
how did you get the idea for this book
well i'm a great jazz fan and i decided it was time to put all the living jazz geniuses into one book in terms of portraits rather than in terms of their performing
there are a lot of performing pictures around but i wanted to really get to them and get to know them and i spent three years photographing them
so these are pictures of many of these individuals have had very long careers but these are pictures of some of them late late in their life like doc cheatham
well i think that one of the most powerful impressions i came away with in doing this book is the healing of music and what it does to people
doc cheatham is ninety three
every sunday he he smokes six inch cigars and every sunday he plays for four hours
he does two sets
he plays his heart out
i mean the man should you know in any other profession he would really be sitting at home or dead
well in this picture that we've moved onto here a couple other greats ray charles artie shaw
artie shaw who cut his own career short
well i was amazed that artie shaw was still alive when i started doing this book
artie shaw is such a legend and he stopped working in nineteen fifty four and he lives out there and he reads books
he's got a huge library and that's what he does
and it was amazing to me that he was still among us
again it's the healing of music that keeps these people alive
benny portis whom you haven't shown is a man who is ninety five and recently blind and instead of nursing his wounds he's going on a world tour
and on his ninety fourth birthday last year he played for three hours straight
it's an amazing experience
i'm curious how you came up with your list of subjects
did you just go to your record collection and choose some of your favorites or how did you go about it
no no no no
i started with two thousand names and i had some help with friends and i went to some musicians
wynton marsalis helped me in paring it down
quincy jones helped me in paring it down
and i eventually came up with this list
it's a very difficult decision to make because the young musicians of which there are so many are very difficult to pin down
and we just went through a picture of anita o'day
tell me the story about her
well anita o'day unfortunately is one of the less fortunate people around
she lives in a trailer in palm springs california and it's very sad to see her
she is one of the few people who are not really still you know performing and up there
she does perform occasionally
she plays the blue note in tokyo once a year i believe
but she is one of the less fortunate i think
most jazz players seem to have a long and effective and rich life
someone like i want to go backwards here in your pictures
you just showed george shearing yeah
george shearing here and also stephan grapelli one of my favorites certainly what a legendary career which really sort of came of age this is george shearing but stephan grapelli who came of age sort of later a revived career there
well i mean stephan has been around since chango rinehart
i mean we're talking the early part of the century
and he's still going strong
george shearing who is blind is an absolutely wonderful human being
aside from his great talent he is full of fun he is very witty
he taught me a wonderful story about being on a plane going from new york to los angeles and it was announced that the plane had to land in chicago and there was going to be a forty five minute layover for some reason
and george stayed on the plane
he was in first class with his dog
and the captain came out and said oh mr. shearing oh he said
it's such a pleasure to have you on board on my plane
i'm a great admirer of yours and went on and on and on
and he said is there something i can do for you and george said yes in fact
would you mind taking my dog out for a walk
he doesn't like to sit still for so long so the captain said i'd be delighted to do this and so the captain took the dog the seeing eye dog and he was wearing his aviator glasses and he went off the plane holding the dog
and probably scared the life out of the passengers
passed all the people that were waiting to get back on the plane
the plane was vacated
george said i was the only person on the plane going on to los angeles
all right
well listen photojournalist jacque lowe we appreciate you sharing your photographs with us and your stories as well
the book is jazz photographs of the masters
thanks for coming in this morning
thank you
yeah
we didn't get to talk about or see the pictures but there are some other more contemporary names quincy jones wynton marsalis the other members of the marsalis family in this book and there are some beautiful pictures
hope you have a chance to take a look at them
a gunman firing an automatic weapon has killed at least thirty two people in historic port arthur tasmania and now about two hundred police have surrounded a cabin where the gunman is believed to be holding three hostages
an amateur cameraman reported some of the rampage as shots were fired in and around a restaurant and other locations in port arthur
now the gunman is firing at police who are trying to negotiate with him attempting to end the siege
many of the wounded were taken to nearby hobart tasmania and it appears many of the wounded are international tourists visiting the landing site where england sent its toughest convicts into exile in the eighteen hundreds
witnesses describe the chaos
he said there's a lot of w. a. s. p.s around here today there's not many japs here are there and then started muttering to himself and then walked inside and that's when all the gunshots started going off
no one sort of realized that it was happening and then of course everyone who was here in a group was worried sick that people that we knew were dead
joining us now on the line with the latest is win t. v. reporter trevor sutton
thanks for joining us trevor
what's the latest
it's still a standoff situation in the hostage siege drama
the police are still at the scene which is the seascape accommodation
and apparently at this stage he still has three hostages
and are police being very forthcoming about how the negotiations are going on
well they say that they're actually negotiating with him at the present time by telephone
they have a direct line set up by telstar so they're able to actually negotiate with him but we don't know how those negotiations are working out
o. k. and we don't know anything about demands or anything along those lines right
number
we think he's about a nineteen year old man but he does have a high powered rifle and it has a nightscape a telescopic nightscape
now there have been reports that he was firing his weapon at helicopters that were medivacing people out of the area
have you seen or heard that
that's not quite true no
this was three the three helicopters were by the police department here to take in the special weapons police officers
these are the officers who are trained as marksmen
they were sent down to the area and there were three helicopter loads of these on their way in when he started firing at one of them
those helicopters were subsequently used to evacuate the wounded
all right well since the siege began has gunfire been exchanged on either side
there's been several instances of gunfire being exchanged but mainly i think it's the gunfire from the gunman coming from the building
all right we don't know what the condition right now of the hostages might be right
no we have no idea whatsoever
we believe there are three hostages a woman an elderly woman and her husband and another male
all right trevor sutton on the line with us
he's with win t. v. and he joins us from tasmania
president clinton will testify today on videotape in a trial related to the whitewater land deal
c. n. n.'s bob franken is live at the white house with a preview
good morning bob
good morning miles
wow it's a nice day here in washington so the president decided he'd get started with a little morning jog because he is going to be spending most of his day inside testifying as you said on videotape
so the president went out this morning and got ready for today's testimony
he is not a defendant in the whitewater trial but two of the defendants jim and susan mcdougal have subpoenaed him and his testimony will be on videotape in this room tape that will be sealed
as a matter of fact it's possible it will be sealed for years to come after it is played in front of the jury down there
the president will be talking about charges that were made by the key witness in this trial and also in the whitewater matter
that is david hale who charges that the illegal loans that are in question in the trial the president pressured him to make those illegal loans when he was governor ten years ago
in his most noted public comment on the matter president clinton said those charges are a lot of bull he'll be questioned at length it could take three to five hours we're told for the testimony this afternoon
the mcdougals are the ones who subpoenaed him as a witness
the governor of the state now who is the other witness jim guy tucker is not expected to be here
the mcdougals are expected to be here today
and there is one other story from here and that is a newsweek story that hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints have been found on the now famous rose law firm billing records that were discovered in the white house and disclosed in january
it was shortly after that that mrs. clinton was brought before a washington grand jury in an unprecedented appearance by the independent counsel
newsweek reports that f. b. i. fingerprint experts have found mrs. clinton's fingerprints on the records originally mrs. clinton had said she had no idea these records were in the white house
later her lawyer said it is possible she was shown them once in nineteen ninety two
now he is saying that there is nothing new in the fact that her fingerprints were found on the records this according to newsweek
magazine
that will not come up in today's questions and answers but the charges by david hale will be brought up
as i said the president is expected to deny them
miles
c. n. n.'s bob franken at the white house
it was a big week for auctions in new york
and there was another auction maybe a little bit racier than the jackie o. auction
it raised money for an art museum
janine sharell has the story
you heard that right
underwear is flying off this runway for hundreds of dollars and it's for a good cause
the national museum of women in the arts was started nearly ten years ago by wilhelmina cole holladay
people like what they know so our job hopefully is to educate people so they will know the art by women and like what they know
people liked what they saw at this fundraiser
these bustiers by designers from cythnia rowley to oscar de la renta helped raked in more than sixteen thousand dollars for the museum
not everybody here was bidding for an undergarment though
do you own a bustier
i do actually
but i don't wear it very often
bustiers can be quite uncomfortable at times
i think i'm a bit old for a bustier but there might be some other things in the silent auction that will interest me
artist faith ringgold picked up an award for her achievements
ringgold's art is actually created on quilts and tells a story
i really appreciate receiving this award
i know it's not any intimate apparel i would wear
the wearable art at this auction was part fundraiser and part public relations event for the loungerie industry
it's an affordable luxury and also it's a necessity
and over the past five year our business has increased thirty percent
victoria's secret and nancy ganz the founder of bodyslimmers were also recognized for revitalizing the business
you have to be an artist to wear underwear well
i design underwear that makes you look like an artist
ganz is beyond wearing her own product she's nine months pregnant
but for the true artist all of life is inspiration
you don't want to control your tummy but the rest of you you want to control
so i have a lot of ideas for pregnancy maternity clothes
ganz took away and award but gave back a leopard bustier and butt boosting bottom for auction a good way to boost any bottom line
janine sharell c. n. n. new york
the arkansas land deal known as whitewater surfaced well before the nineteen ninety two election
four years later though new details are still emerging
as prosecutors in little rock pursue criminal charges against james and susan mcdougal and governor jim guy tucker republicans in congress pursue their own whitewater agenda
on our agenda today c. n. n.'s bob franken our capitol hill correspondent today reporting to us from in front of the white house
also with us today roger cossack whom you know from c. n. n.'s burden of proof and bill schneider our political analyst
and gentlemen we thank you all for joining us this morning
a special appearance by all three of you
bob i want to start with you and ask you procedurally what happens today
they go to the map room for this
the map room which is a room of historic significance
it's where the maps were reviewed in various war efforts
but there are going to be about thirty people in the room
they're going to be testifying under very strict rules set up by judge howard in little rock who will be watching by satellite and dealing with objections
and they will be taping the president's deposition
this was what they worked out as the way that he could testify in the trial to refute the testimony of david hale his main accuser and the main accuser of the defendants who are on trial here
i must point out president clinton is not on trial
he is a witness here
that's right bob
and also when we talk about a satellite feed for the judge to be able to monitor the proceedings here isn't there some concern that with all the people who now have satellite dishes somebody might be trying to bring this down and report this
oh no no no
now they're very sophisticated here in scrambling satellite feeds as you might imagine
and the military we're told will be involved in seeing to it that this is scrambled
so while the judge will be able to descramble it the rest of us will not be able to figure out how to do it
now what's interesting here is what happens with the tape
it is sealed until it is shown to the jury probably in the next couple of weeks in little rock
however the white house lawyers have been successful in getting the judge to order that it is sealed afterwards for at least thirty days while lawyers put in arguments
and what's interesting is that would probably mean that when the president testified it would not be released as evidence normally is to the media
so it could be played on the day and would probably lessen the impact of its being played
roger let's go to you for some legal expertise on all this
now we used the word deposition in this but this is not really technical speaking a deposition
no it's really not
this is really the president testifying
but since he's not in court we're going to call it a deposition
but in fact it's the same rules of evidence as it would be as if he was testifying
objections will be lodged by the side that feels that they're being that they have the right to object
and there's that judge who's going to be watching it on videotape who will make immediate decisions as to whether or not the objection is sustained or overruled and whether or not the president has to go ahead and keep testifying
joie one thing i might want to point our however
roger what is interesting about a videotaped deposition testimony or deposition whatever you want to call it is the objections the ones that are sustained are edited out
the jury will never see the normal by play that goes on with objections
that's right
well that's highly unusual because as we all know usually there's that good fight between the lawyers over the objections
in this case the jury will never see that
roger as in from the prosecutorial mode i mean would you be able in this context to be as rigorous in asking for testimony from the president
i mean would the questions be able to be as tough as they would be either in a courtroom setting or with just an ordinary citizen
well i suppose that you're always going to be a little intimated by the president of the united states but i think these lawyers understand that they have a job to do
and while i'm sure they will be very respectful and deferential to the president i think they're going to ask the right questions and gear in there
the hard the interesting part about this is that remember the president is being called as a defense witness and he's being called by two different defendants
and even though they were formerly married there are two different defendants
so as for example as jim mcdougal's lawyer would examine the president his former wife's lawyer would be allowed to cross examine the president
and you know there's something very interesting here joie
arkansas is a small state
the two lawyers each have a relationship with president clinton
one of them was a law student of president clinton
jim mcdougal's lawyer who is the one who is the lead lawyer here sam heuer was taught by president clinton at the university of arkansas
later however he got angry with him when they were trying to decide whether to do this tape or live and he ended up calling him hypocritical
bobby mcdaniel is a long time political supporter of the president
he is susan mcdougal's lawyer
so it's a small world after all isn't it
it is a small it's certainly a small state
all right let's get bill schneider in here now
bill we have talked a little bit
bob franken has made reference to the attempts to seal the tape and to keep the rest of us from seeing it at least before the jury does
but what does this all mean to the average voter
i mean how much do people really care about what is being said and what will be recorded in this tape
well i think the average voter right now doesn't understand whitewater
they've heard a lot of allegations but they want to know what's at the bottom of this who committed a crime
and in particular is there anything the president and the first lady are responsible for
and with all these now years of hearings starting with nineteen ninety four in capitol hill they still don't see any evidence that the president or the first lady is guilty of something
however the one most startling incident was the appearance of the first the rose law firm's billing records mysteriously in january in the white house
now that's something that raised a lot of suspicions
that was the one thing that made an impression on the public which convinced an awful lot of americans that they're trying to hide something that's the wide spread perception
people haven't concluded they've done anything wrong but there is the perception they must be trying to hide something
so is the character issue bill the critical thing at this point for the voters and looking at whitewater whatever the procedures are whatever actually comes out of the mcdougal trial
is what the average person really caring about here the character issue
well yeah i mean but that's not new
i mean people have had questions about president clinton bill clinton's character when he was running in nineteen ninety two
remember the controversy over his draft record and his relationship with jennifer flowers
those questions have been raised for a long time
it's like a low grade fever that's been persistently there
he can't quite get over it even though he's very popular right now
questions about his character remain and the whole point of the white house operation is to make sure this fever remains low grade for the rest of the campaign that there is not bomb shell that there is no sudden revelation no smoking gun in any of the remaining months
i think he
bob that's an important point though
because after all i understand that there is some feeling at the white house that perhaps this is sort of coming to an end that they'll be able to sort of put this aside by the time we get to the fall and to the election year behaviors as well
but isn't there also the suspicion that maybe there will be another bomb shell out there
as a matter of fact bill as a matter of fact makes the good point about the low grade fever and that they want to keep it low grade
i should remind people by the way that those billing records newsweek reports this week have been found by the f. b. i. to have hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints on them
the white house is downplaying that but of course others will be up playing that so to speak
yes the white house worries about some sort of bomb shell and is trying very very hard to contain this
bill let me just ask you a question
if in fact there would be a conviction in this case and remember the issue here is they're bringing in president clinton to say that the prosecution's main witness is a liar
now suppose that the arkansas jury doesn't believe the president and convicts these people
doesn't that low grade fever suddenly rise to a high grade fever
it rises higher because that means they didn't believe the president of the united states
and most americans already suspect that a lot of the people the president was associated with back in arkansas in the nineteen eighties were suspicious characters and many of them probably did something unethical if not illegal
but the question is did the president or the first lady do anything wrong
the standards of proof are very high here because we're talking about the president of the united states and the first lady
and you're going to have to have some pretty strong evidence that they did something illegal or unethical before this is going to explode into a campaign issue
but roger asks a good question
depending on the outcome of this trial it'll be a referendum a jury referendum so to speak on the effectiveness of david hale's testimony
david hale is the main witness in that trial and he is the main accuser of the president in the whitewater matter
roger when you talk about limitations on what kind of testimony the president will give i mean after all this is restricted to i think eight hours of testimony are there also restrictions that the president can impose in terms of what he will choose not to answer
will he have a certain privilege beyond what an ordinary citizen would in this context beyond having a special session for this
well you know assuming that we're not getting into matters of national security which i don't see happening here because all of these events happened before he was the president of the united states and assuming that he's not going to take the fifth amendment which we know he's not going to i think he's pretty much going to be held to the same standard as every citizen would and should be held to
bill looking at this in the longer term as we go toward the fall will this part of the process be the more critical part or will the senate investigation be more important to the average voter
i think most important to the average voter is kenneth starr's revelations his findings rather
he is the special prosecutor
he has the most authority over this case
he has promised that he would make his findings public before the election in plenty of time for them to be considered by the voters
that is the most important part of the process
this is a criminal trial only indirectly involving the clintons
the senate investigation most people see a partisan motive behind
and the white house is trying to impugn partisan motives to the special prosecutor kenneth starr
they have a big damage control operation which is sort of pre emptive here in saying whatever he comes up with remember kenneth starr is a republican and he has a lot of partisan connections
he's working for a lot of clients that are linked in various ways to the white house the tobacco industry which of course has been attacked by the president
so they're trying to pre emptively discredit whatever he comes up with
the kenneth starr findings will be the most important shoe to drop
bob as we look also to this videotape isn't it part of the question i mean after all the president has said that he does think that the press and the public should have some access to what is said but not the whole videotape
isn't that a bit like splitting hairs for political reasons
well it's hardly splitting hairs
there are really three ways that we'll have access
first of all when the tape is played before the jury there will be the normal coverage in court
that is to say this reporter and others will be sitting in there and listening and will be able to report what is said
there is also going to be a transcript that will be made if by nobody else the court reporter
the question is the impact of playing those tapes
now the white house point of view is that no witnesses of testimony normally is shown because federal courts don't allow cameras in the courtroom a la the o. j. simpson trial
but the opposite side's argument part of it would be that as a deposition and apparently this officially a deposition it would be evidence and should be presented
there are probably supreme court precedents all over the place but i would leave that to the attorneys like roger cossack
i would suspect that this will be if you make me predict i would suspect that this will be blocked for a while but i think that this will certainly be out before the election
it's obvious what he's worried about
what he's worried about is the picture of bill clinton with his hand on the bible raising and telling saying i swear to tell the truth the whole truth and the republicans getting a hold of that
so i think that there will be some protection but i think it'll be out
and plus the fact that this is being sent up by satellite i with all due respect to the army which i do respect there's somebody out there who's going to break this and it won't be long before it's out
scrambling unscrambling away
all right
gentlemen we thank you all for your insight and expertise for us this morning
bob franken bill schneider and roger cossack
and we'll see you guys later
a man who surrendered at the freemen compound in montana is in custody and due to appear in federal court tomorrow
stuart douglas waterhouse gave up yesterday as former green beret officer james bo gritz was negotiating an end to anti government group's five week old standoff with the f. b. i.
c. n. n.'s don knapp joins us from near broussette montana with a live update
good morning don
good morning miles
that's right
it is still another freeman the fifth that we know of so far to come off the property since all of this began
he came off as you said at a time when a lot of activity was going on here a lot of new developments on the ranch
and he came off about early afternoon
we didn't see him
it happened in a remote part of the ranch while we were involved with other activity here on the ranch the negotiations that were going on
he came off and surrendered to authorities
now the way that waterhouse got onto the property was unusual and that's what he's being charged with
he came onto the property after the standoff began by running a road block so that's one of the charges he faces
he also faces what is called a felony intimidation charge in connection with some activity in oklahoma
that according the u. s. attorney here
now waterhouse came off the ranch at just about the same time that former green beret james bo gritz was on the ranch conducting an unusual negotiation
he was on the ranch and he talked with the freemen for about seven hours and later talked with us
these guys are the salt of the earth
every one of them have sidearms strapped on them they have a gun in every room it would appear
but they are not violent people
gritz says his first concern is getting young people out safely
the one young lady the fourteen year old who looks very mature for her age said that she wished that she could be with her boyfriend in carolina and that this was not something that she was ready to die for that she hadn't begun to live yet
gritz says freemen knew of his reputation for helping end the ruby ridge standoff and welcomed him with open arms
and he says they respect randy weaver
he has his three daughters but he's missing his bride and his little boy
there's these little girls in there
i want those moms to hear randy weaver
the f. b. i. would not permit weaver to enter the ranch saturday but gritz said he'll try to get weaver in soon and he'll try to get weaver's attorney jerry spence to represent the freemen
if they will have legal representation then jerry spence or john dekamp could start negotiating instantly with the government to say let's get real i don't feel like there is a lazarus rich man arbraham gap here
i think this thing is bridgeable
an optimistic bo gritz talking about what happened yesterday
he's painting a very pretty rosy picture
he says he'll be back this morning
we expect him back in about three hours
we don't know if he'll have randy weaver with him or not
he says the people inside want randy weaver
miles
don getting back to stuart douglas waterhouse what's next for him
he is already in billings montana
he's in jail
he's in the yellowstone county jail
and on monday he will be arraigned so that's the next event in his career
all right
c. n. n.'s don knapp reporting live this morning from near broussette montana
tonight c. n. n. presents tackles a tough issue the country's mental health system which is seriously overburdened to the point of breaking down
as c. n. n. larry lamotte explains in this segment from tonight's program jails increasingly have become the dumping ground for many of the mentally ill
medication folks let's go let's go
get fixed up for this afternoon
thorazine and haldol
i would take paxyl for my psychotic behavior
thorazine benadryl
depokote is to take away my impulsive behavior
haldol
colin
cogentin lithium
i have schizophrenic paranoia
it's russian's in my ear sittin' here tellin' me all this stuff too
did you ever try to commit suicide before
i've cut my throat
i threw myself in a moving truck
how are you doin' charles
i brought the juice
do you think you're a sick person
i am sick
and i don't want to admit it
you don't want to admit it
number
why not
because i'm scared
what are you scared of
i'm scared of being sick
but you are sick
but i'm not normal
what is normal
you
do you think so
yeah
i looks and sounds like a regular mental hospital
come up to the desk
now can we see you
but this isn't a hospital
it's a county jail
mental health care is shifting here making jails the provider of last resort
yet some call it an unfair burden for both law enforcement and the mentally ill
jails were not meant to be treatment facilities for people with severe mental disorders
it's not what we're supposed to be doing
but we take it on because nobody else is doing it and it has to be done
few jails take on the mentally ill as well as hillsborough county florida surrounding tampa
a special medical staff and facilities are part of the plan here
even so most agree they are here primarily because of a break down in the mental health care system
you're in jail now
is that where you belong
number
where do you belong
i belong in a hospital where i can get help
robert greer is in a special ward for mentally ill inmates
all sixty four beds are occupied
i'd have to say i'm nuts
i have a severe psychological problem
and it needs to be treated through regulating medication and constant visits to therapy
this is greer's sixth trip to jail
he's in for breaking into cars and pawning the stolen goods
at twenty two this teen runaway has a history of substance abuse suicide attempts and psychiatric hospital stays
i was already diagnosed with multi personality disorder at the age of three
at twelve greer left home
then came troubled years in foster care
there have been moments of promise a high school diploma a talent for guitar but that promise could fade away if the judge labels him an habitual criminal and sends him to prison
they should provide hospital settings for people who have non violent crimes
why would it be any different
the difference would be i wouldn't have to wake up and live watch a fight every day
the difference would be i wouldn't have to listen to somebody talk about killing somebody
i'd be in a group session with people who actually relate i relate to
if you just went to prison because of your crimes
i'd kill myself
i love you
i miss you so much
i do i miss you so much
i hate seeing him behind that window and he's not a bad person
i mean he really does need a rehab
he needs to get himself cleaned out
he needs to get out he needs to get himself a good job
for c. n. n. sunday morning i'm larry lamotte
larry lamotte joins us now for a little bit more about this special report tonight and larry i'm curious about the tampa jail
it seems as if that was a fairly progressive approach that they were taking there
how typical is what they do there
not typical at all
mostly across the nation people who are found wandering the streets who maybe bother the citizens in some respect are thrown into jail on some charge and there's no facilities whatsoever to screen them to say that they're different than the rest of the cell mates that they need any kind of drugs or any kind of process whatsoever so consequently they stay among the the inmates
the inmates treat them in many cases very badly
it's a fearful time for people like that and we talked to people who were in jail and they said that the scariest moment for them in their lives was to be in jail
because they saw fights on a daily basis they were threatened on a daily basis
they wanted help
they wanted to go to an institution or to some place who understood their problem
they're not getting it for the most part nationwide
talking about institutions there are other areas that you explore in your program tonight
can you tell us a little bit about that
well we go into the whole debate over managed care
how good a job is managed care doing particularly for people with mental problems depression for example
and we look at rand corporation study out of los angeles that says over a period of time people under managed care with mental problems are faring worse than people who are under regular care because the emphasis seems to be on on how inexpensive the process is versus quality of care
we also go into scams that are perpetrated against the people with who are vulnerable with mental problems
for example you're depressed
you see an eight hundred number for depression
you call it
and the person on the other end of the line says well we have sort of a health spa atmosphere where in total anonymity you can come here free of charge because your insurance company will pay for it and we'll fly you chauffeur will pick you up and take you
they don't realize that they're being taken to a mental institution
they're going to be labeled a person with mental problems that's going to go on their record and they also don't realize that what some of these eight hundred numbers not all are trying to do is just take all their insurance money
just you know completely collapse their insurance money
i guess a lot of people are understandably bitter about their experiences as being patients in this system
as i understand it you speak to a former mental patient who is now a psychiatrist and he's talking about this very subject
yes
he's a very interesting man out of boston who had his p. h. d. in microbiology
and he began to see the enzymes without a microscope
and spent a lot of time
seeing enzymes without a microscope
yes
and he spent a lot of time in mental institutions
during that period he thought the treatment was brutal that it was non caring and so he became interested in becoming a psychiatrist which he eventually did even though he was labeled as a schizophrenic which would keep you from full time employment
he proved that you could do it with that label
became a psychiatrist started a national self help movement where he's telling people you don't have to do what the doctor tells you you don't have to be admitted
you don't have to take psychotropic drugs
you decide that for yourself that's one aspect of it
but they teach them what their rights are as patients
many people just do whatever the doctor says and go about their business
lot of success with the self help movement very interesting guy and so we profiled him
and that's one of the pieces
somebody with an empathic approach
that's very interesting
larry thanks for coming in today
and the program is called breakdown
it'll be featured tonight on c. n. n. presents
now live from washington capital gang sunday
good evening and welcome to capital gang sunday
i'm jim glassman with juan williams of the washington post josette shiner of the washington times jim warren of the chicago tribune and howard fineman of newsweek
the president testified today via videotape as a defense witness in the trial of his former partners in the failed whitewater land deal
clinton is not accused of any crime his testimony will be made public during the trial
democrats and republicans have argued about whether it's important or proper for the tape to be released to the media
let me say if they would appear on a t. v. network it is not as if his words are going to be denied but the fact of the matter is that we will end up watching those in thirty second spots all fall during the campaign
republicans say they have better things to talk about than whitewater
in our planning we don't anticipate that it will be a it will be an issue
we want the we want it to be on we want this campaign to be on issues like crime and welfare
and in other whitewater news newsweek reported today that sources say that first lady hillary rodham clinton's fingerprints are on the documents that resurfaced in her white house office earlier this year
her attorney says that's not surprising
the source at newsweek said the fingerprints could be critical in building an obstruction of justice case against her
howard just an hour ago just before we went on the air
in our fair city
in our fair city
not very far from here president clinton finished testifying in this whitewater case
now how significant is this
well it's not true that bob dole and haley barbour were in a satellite truck outside the white house trying to pull that signal off
you know the satellite signals are being scrambled when they are being sent to little rock to
right right right
they have a decoder ring
prevent that kind of thing
yeah
the the clinton white house has done a brilliant job on the politics of whitewater
they have spun this thing masterfully
at this point most of the american public doesn't care very much about whitewater case and the clintons want to keep it that way
but their attorneys know that now is the critical time
what the clintons have to watch out for both bill and hillary is perjury or obstruction of justice charges
not the original stuff that happened back in arkansas in the eighties but what they say about it now
and that's why this case is significant
and politically if this doesn't turn into a major scandal which it still is not bob dole is going to have an even harder time of winning this election
that's the big picture around here
so whitewater case has become maybe more important than even republicans wanted it to be
well i don't believe haley barbour for a second when he says he said he said they are not counting on this as an issue but the question is are they hoping its an issue
obviously so
juan you have been you've been sort of a skepti you've been kind of anti clinton on this whitewater case issue
i remember way back you were very unhappy with the way that the first lady was treating some people in this case
no i think the question of obstruction of justice that howard touches on is a real issue in terms of the the way the clinton white house has reacted
and i think i reacted basically with a reporter's instincts which is if the president the people who have real power in the society are covering something up hey let's go get it
i think the clinton people should have come clean
basically look this is a tawdry small state arkansas scandal in which these guys are looking to make some money for themselves mrs. and mrs. clinton and i don't think that they really violated any great law
i don't think they there are any buried bodies anywhere
so let's move on
but the clintons didn't react that way and i think that invited all people who really had a had a grudge to bear to come after it including republicans
josette shiner
the washington times' well juan
jim
you could call any of the you could call any of the sav the savings and loans scandals small state scandals these things have national impact it cost the country a lot of money and it cost taxpayers a lot of money and that's why the case in arkansas even the white house believes that this is the strongest case possible that could involve the clinton's and if there are convictions out of that they feel that that would give new impetus to the starr investigation and it will
but if there aren't
by the way what do you make of this this starr this business about the starr investigation there have been all these claims and i am going to go jim i will ask jim this question there are all of these claims that there are conflicts of interest you know i kind of smell a rat here which is that maybe very worried that starr is close to something and they are trying to throw up a smokescreen whereas if they don't think that he is about to do anything significant then they would just settle back and say what a wonderful prosecutor he is
possible possible
independent counsel
but obviously the big question now as newsweek brings up is how much will those hillary fingerprints fetch at auction in thirty or forty years
i am really excited about that
thank goodness for newsweek
nice but
for saying the right things
well remember this to answer your question mr. starr has gotten guilty pleas from nine people already although they have not touched bill and hillary clinton
the central question today though we don't know anything about what was asked we can guess the central question had to do with weather bill clinton was in a makeshift mobile home in nineteen eighty eight with mr. mcdougal and mr. hale who is a former municipal judge there a convicted swindler and whether or not bill clinton as governor helped conspire to get a three hundred thousand dollar loan and then money was sort of funneled to the mcdougals
up to this point at trial and throughout this case there is no evidence linking them to hav to support the allegation
and in fact if you look at hale's testimony much of which is fortuitous to the white house howard was sort of lost in the glare of publicity in the glare of publicity over unabomber over ron brown's plane going down but lost in the glare of publicity is also the fact that his testimony was very inconsistent and they really had not touched bill clinton
let me give howard the last word unfortunately this is kind of a short segment
have you got any response to that because it was your story your magazine had this article about the fingerprints
how significant is that
well i think it is potentially very significant
because hillary clinton during the nineteen ninety two campaign and then during the famous pink lady press conference she gave said she knew very little about transactions at her law firm involving the mcdougal's or the land deals and so on
but if her fingerprints are in fact genuine as the f. b. i. seems to think they are then the white house has been forced to now explain well in fact it's obvious that her fingerprints would be on it because she looked at those billing records very carefully
if she looked at them carefully why was she saying what she said before
either that or she is the one who placed them in the
our viewers i don't know if our viewers are following all that
but she could have lifted them years ago
i mean the fact is
oh i don't know
it oh i don't know
clinton clinton's there
and somebody else could have been wearing her fingerprints
oh stop
but look clinton clinton was asked there by the defense he wasn't asked there he's not a target of
maybe not
they think it's a match
although it's a cute thing to say
well that's a separate matter
yeah that's a separate matter
you are asking me about a whole separate matter now
but we we will be back
i am sure we will hear more about this in the coming weeks right josette
and when we come back fueling the controversy of rising gas prices
welcome back
echoes of the nineteen seventies
over the past year gasoline prices have increased on the average fourteen cents a gallon
the bulk of that increase has occurred just this past month alone
the most dramatic increase since the persian gulf war is driving motorists crazy
there is a traditional run up in gasoline prices as we approach the summer but this is a much larger increase much earlier and the public that we hear from and talk with in connecticut just doesn't get it
and they think something is wrong something is unfair here
the oil industry blames the long harsh winter production problems at some west coast refineries and expectations that long embargoed iraqi crude oil will soon be flooding the world market
tempers are rising and many feel that oil executives are blowing smoke in the name of profit
what's really raised prices substantially has been the increase of the raw material product crude oil which has gone up significantly
it's difficult to see there being major supplies of cheap gasoline until crude oil comes down
so juan is this another example of corporate greed or is it a question of supply and demand
i think this is closer to corporate shennanigans
the increase here has been so steep and so precipitous as to invite people to say well wait a second if the supply was dwindling why wasn't there a gradual situation
it's understandable if there was some cut in the supply that maybe prices would rise at the start of the driving season it's summer and all but the fact is this has happened like a snap and it's happened at just the time when you have the u. n. considering ending those sanctions against iraq
so if the sanctions end then you will have suddenly a flood of oil supplies
no but they kept the supplies short because this new iraqi oil was coming
by the way i just want to ask you one question
sure
when the price of oil falls as it has in previous years is that because of consumer conspiracy
consumer conspiracy
get out of here
what what kind of logic is that
well no juan you make it seem like the producers have conspired to okay go ahead
mr. free market you got the you got the point about iraq right you got the point about the long winter another one you didn't bring up is the gas guzzling ways of probably people like yourselves right
drove to drove to the cape this weekend right
cape cod
well i have my car i drove my little volkswagen thirty three miles to the gallon
okay but anyway
but you're right
but hold on hold
four wheel drives
four wheel drive
a lot of people drive those big four wheel drive cars
and a lot of these big sport utility vehicles are back and we won't curb our gas guzzling ways
and interestingly enough did you notice the other day here's a political insider spin on this you have senator dole in obviously a brazen attempt to lure the sport utility vehicle voter bloc which will be dramatic call for
the suburban voter right
which will be dramatic called for a repeal of four point one cent four point three cents
well actually
increase that the democrats and clinton put in
what do you think of that
we're going to have a recession
what do you think about that
it's actually an oil industry conspiracy to help bob dole by allowing him to champion a tax cut
that's right
they raise the prices so he
to champion a tax cut
actually it could be very popular it actually could be a break for bob dole
because i think it is going to actually get some serious consideration
is it
i think there is a possibility
yeah
it's a good issue
in california forty four cents of a gallon are state and federal taxes
it costs sixty seven dollars today to fill up your winnebago in california
people are really angry about this and blaming taxes is part of it corporate greed is another part of it but i think dole has a good issue by trying to repeal that tax increase
oh i think this
which every republican opposed in nineteen ninety three
but even this five percent tax has not
i think bob dole has occasionally been for it
really has not been an issue and the reason that it hasn't been an issue was because gas taxes were fairly reasonable and i think all of the outcry died away until now and dole is essentially being an opportunist by leaping on the bandwagon now as opposed to saying listen this is an oil industry that's saying we're trying to get our profits now before oil supplies become more plentiful and maybe drive oil prices down
well he's not so much of an opportunist is he as a presidential candidate
well the same thing
maybe that's they're the same thing
but the but the fact is you know that dole has voted for gas tax inceases before
the problem with bob dole is that he has such a long career in congress that he's voted for and against just about everything so maybe that won't hurt him
you know what i just want to get back to jim warren's point i think these big cars and the fact that we have raised speed limits really does work against us in these situations
jim glassman and also
so wait the thing
this notion you said something about corporate greed which i find very surprising
no wait the thing
because you speak the truth
you mean you were surprised that she speaks the truth
i mean corporations i mean corporations no no
the price of gas today even with this big increase is only about fifteen percent higher than it was right after the war the persian gulf war is actually lower in real terms than it was before the arab oil embargo in the early seventies
i mean the fact is i don't think we pay enough for gasoline right now
it's not because i want the profits to go to the oil companies but i'd like to see a certain amount of conservation
the only way you can get that is by higher prices
well it's true but if you look at
my libertarian friends will hate this but it's true
and in california the reason that prices are higher there than anywhere else anywhere else in the country in part is because they require this reformulated gas which even though it has less emissions it takes more of it to get your car it's less efficient and it costs more money and only refineries in california can do it
so when you have short supply their prices are over two dollars a gallon there now
so it's those regulators again
yes
we knew it
and when we come back middle east war and peace
welcome back
after two weeks of heavy fighting which killed at least two hundred civilians in lebanon and displaced more than five hundred thousand israel and syrian backed hezbollah guerrillas agreed to a ceasefire
it's the first written ceasefire banning attacks on civilians
i want to make it clear that these understandings are not a substitute for a complete and permanent solution
they are not a substitute for a peace agreement between israel and lebanon
that is why the united states believes that the resolution of this crisis should be the basis for returning to negotiations seeking a comprehensive
the right of our self defense is not limited and if our forces are attacked they will return fire
in another significant development the p. l. o. has dropped from its covenant wording denying the right of israel to exist
and today israeli prime minister shimon peres arrived in washington for three days of talks with the clinton administration
so josette is peace back on track
well peace got a second wind which it needed desperately
the israeli public has been very skeptical of this
they've had a number of losses of their people based on this peace agreement
we have elections coming up in israel and the likud had been ahead for quite awhile this is the opposition party which is against the peace treaty
lebanon which used to be the paris of the middle east has recently been a bloody mailbox where when all else fails israel and its neighbors start sending messages to each other and the message over this past two weeks is that this peace process is over
christopher was able to scratch out through i think going to syria and bowing down a little bit too far was able to scratch out some agreement here and it gives it a second chance
but we still don't know
if there is one more terrorist attack peres will lose the election and peace will be derailed so it's very touch and go
and this ceasefire really doesn't affect anyone other than allegedly affects anyway civilians
right
not soldiers
i mean this doesn't really stop any of the animosities
number
i mean it's very political as josette was saying i think it's right on target this is all about politics this is all about may twenty ninth and even a ceasefire they say you know everything including the israeli troops pulling out of the golan heights everything will be done in stages leading up to that election i think
so what you are looking at is is politics as part of the peace process and the u. s. as part of this i think is really in a difficult situation dealing with hafez elassad
you know i mean i think that he's in a tough spot because he doesn't want to encourage fundamentalists in his own country to become angry at him he has to appear to be an enemy of israel at the same time i think he senses that he's at a moment were peace is possible
yeah
it's easy to make fun of warren christopher his style his demeanor he seems almost born to prostrate himself in front of foreign dictators
right and he's proven he's very good at it
and his you know his spin doctors you know his spin doctors said well the key moment was when he snapped shut his briefcase and threatened to leave you know
but the fact is he did get something significant there which is the first time that assad has publicly admitted that he controls those people in southern lebanon
which of course everyone knows
which everyone knows but which it's important in the kabuki dance of the middle east to get straight
but the key actor i think was yasir arafat because on the very day that all of this was going on he pushed through the resolution taking out of the p. l. o. charter the condemnation of the existence of israel on israeli independence day very very symbolic and important
yes
yeah howard is right and it leads us to an interesting question and how arafat becomes increasingly such an intriguing character
he's in a wicked political situation on his side
he may tend to increasingly lose credibility as he becomes more and more moderate in a situation which so often kind of veers to the extreme
and ultimately he may is going to have to cross his fingers that that israel helps him out and that peres better win because he is going to be in a a real tough situation and one wonders how much more can he give up
that's what this whole thing
he needs peres but legally now there is no obstacle to a palestine state
and within a year or two we could see
yeah
because the other thing that happened is that the labor party in israel voted to allow to countenance a state
the creation of a state
what is the state
all this this whole this whole mechanics of this this whole thing is to try to get peres reelected
right
well except
that's what all of this is about
but you're saying except for assad
yeah except for assad
yeah except for assad
yeah except for assad started it
by essentially letting hezbollah use these missiles which he allowed to be into the country so
but he may end up but he may end up
he may end up helping peres get reelected
but what that what that
and that's very ironic of course
yeah
because peres is by far this is by far the most dovish administration that israel has had probably ever
well but what what absolutely fascinates me in this whole deal is the fundamentalists in terms of for instance iran syria how we see the the the arab fundamentalists responding to the idea of a peace process is one in which they are coping with the notion of we have so much anger and we have so much a sense of wanting blood to retaliate but at the same time understanding the leadership now we see arafat
but
but there must be
let's not forget
they must be ready
they are not ready they are not ready for peace
assad has not proved himself a credible partner for peace
and he's not ready to give anything
well and i think that's i think that's the key it's more it's more important what assad is doing than what's going on in israel
assad is stirring up a lot of trouble and i think we are pandering to him in a way that we shouldn't
we should get tough with assad
and then what will the fundamentalists do with him
well we will talk about that we will
they will get tough with him and he won't be there for us to talk with
we will talk about that next week
when we return the auction of the century
welcome back
as our hall of fame hall of shame this week we're going to look at the selling of camelot
it was the biggest garage sale of the country
some five thousand five hundred items from the estate of the late jacqueline kennedy onassis were auctioned off at sotheby's
the auction brought in more than thirty four million dollars
talk show host montel williams spent more than seventeen thousand dollars on a bracelet
boston red sox pitcher roger clemons unsuccessfully bid for president kennedy's golf clubs
one woman bought one of jackie onassis' mint julep cups and plans to use it as a toothbrush holder
jim warren now we had a deal i think you were supposed to what you were supposed to buy the irons i was supposed to buy the woods
yeah
i know
but you chickened out where was it about five hundred thousand dollars or so
no i ultimately went for the fake pearls so i could wear them with like madonna nightgown and arnold schwarzenegger undies i've purchased at other celebrity auctions
other other auctions
you know i work for a paper whose movie critic gene siskel the thin balding one in nineteen seventy nine spent two thousand dollars on a three piece white polyester suit of travolta that he wore in saturday night fever and then sold in the past year for one hundred forty five thousand dollars
i mean there has always been this sort of thing but usually you pass a one hundred years
right
it's you know it's been for sacred items and things of great but now it's celebrities
this is the special q. v. c. edition of capital gang sunday
i think so
i have a couple of items a lamar alexander video from the last campaign and i can guarantee that this has never been watched also
and an ollie north but i would like to show this item
oh eighty five cents
well jackie's three strand pearls went for two hundred eleven thousand dollars even though they only cost fifty five dollars to start with
mine cost fifty five dollars i am auctioning them off tonight i'll take starting bids two hundred eleven dollars not two hundred eleven thousand dollars
what a deal what a a deal
i think we will get a lot of bids
and they look great on you by the way
thank you
better than on montel williams by the way i think
so do you have any comments about the deeper meaning of this auction
i think the deeper meaning of this is really sad
i mean in some ways if you like the kennedys this is kind of a trashy way for them to go out
i mean it's not and i find it and i find it interesting that arnold schwarzenegger who is now part of the family married to maria shriver wants the golf clubs so badly is he going to go play with these golf clubs
i mean is he going to keep it in his home in his bedroom as you know the austrian boy who made it big celebrates the all american dream
i don't know what it means
i don't know
it is kind of sad
i mean there is sort of a yearning in this country that you would think by now would be satisfied in other ways but it's not
and these are the rich who are doing this
these are the rich
these are the rich
these were these were
will bill clinton's golf clubs fetch this much
that's true will bill clinton's golf clubs fetch eight hundred thousand dollars
and that's it for capital gang sunday
join us again next week
good night
at the white house today the president of the united states gave testimony in a criminal trial
is this new trouble for bill clinton or is it the final chapter in the whitewater saga
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony but that it shouldn't be abused in any way
from washington crossfire sunday
on the left bob beckel
on the right lynne cheney
in the crossfire democratic consultant lynn cutler and republican senator rod grams of minnesota member of the whitewater committee
good evening and welcome to crossfire sunday
the white house was turned into a courthouse today as the president of the united states gave taped testimony that will soon be used in a criminal trial
the president is not a defendant but prosecutors no doubt grilled him about charges made by david hale their star witness that bill clinton pressured him into making illegal loans
democrats say there's no substance here just politics that it's an election year attempt to damage the president and they make the same claim about the whitewater hearings that resumed on the hill this week
some democrats have even been saying that whitewater is dissipating and the danger is over
have we passed the rapids bob or do they lie ahead
it depends on whose river
in our river it's over with
senator grams welcome
thank you bob
look one of the longest and most costly investigations in the history of the congress maybe the longest and most costly so far nothing turned up on the president of the united states
the public in poll after poll is getting tired of this
is the republican conservative revolution so bankrupt that the only thing you can do now is focus on whitewater
isn't it time to give it up
well it could be the longest but that's only because i don't think the white house cooperated
we could have had these hearings over a long time ago if only the white house would have come clean and produced all the documents that had been subpoenaed
number
is the public getting tired of it
i think what we
yes
have to do is find out where are we
i mean there's a lot of loose ends out there and then to say we have found nothing i mean when we look at the testimony this week when we have helen heard who dealt with leases for the state testifying that mr. marshall i think it was or mallard
mallard
said that well we're going to lease this space because the governor wants it and i'm a friend of the governor i'm a friend of mr. mcdougal and that's where they want to put it so this is political favors
then we look at
but you're in to the point senator where you've recycled nineteen witnesses now
no no
then we look at
you might let him finish lynn
a loan officer named hayes that says that mr. peacock who was a director took out a fifty thousand dollar loan that was never repaid
he said he wasn't going to repay it because the money went to the clinton campaign
so here we have taxpayer dollars going to finance the campaign
so we have a lot of loose ends bob that need to be answered
well but senator grams let me ask you about the credibility of the people on
bill clinton getting influence from mr. mcdougal and mr. mcdougal getting influence from bill clinton
well you know senator you and i have been in politics a long time
the list you just gave me i don't think is distinct only to arkansas but let's go to the credibility of your chairman for a second
here senator d'amato says he wants this videotaped testimony of the president of the united states which he's given this afternoon released to the public and yet the same senator d'amato refuses to allow the transcripts of his own rather sleazy ethics investigation to the public
now where is that
i mean if al d'amato wants the president of the united states to fess up al d'amato either ought to quit that committee chair or fess up himself
here we go again with that same argument that if we can't really pinpoint something on whitewater or argue the case on the merits we go after and personally attack someone else and this time it happens to be chairman d'amato
i think we should look at what we're talking about and that is what influence did mcdougal give to mr. clinton and that is he had gave him campaign contributions and influence in taxpayer dollars
in return mr. clinton gave him access to state agencies and tax dollars
so i mean we want to get to the bottom of this
and now to bring in mr. d'amato and to bring even senator dole into this
well i think there's a trial underway senator that may be determine the facts of that
again is to try to divert attention
i'd like to ask you a question
since the white house says it has absolutely nothing to fear and nothing to hide from the testimony that the president's giving today wouldn't the smartest thing be to just release the tape
i don't understand why they're
it's not up to the president
oh
well because lynne no
i'm sorry
lynn i'm sorry
the court
wait
the judge
would not hold the tape back if the president were not asking and the white house were not asking him to do it
the court has ordered it sealed
after its release the president said himself he'll do everything to make the testimony public
were it not
oh lynn
for floyd brown
lynn
mr. sleaze of the republican party saying i
there you go again
can't wait to get my hands on this tape to use in a campaign commercial there
i love
would be no concern here
lynn let me just point out the orwellian way that you use language the orwellian way that the white house counsel uses language
we intend to give the public full access is just what you said but you don't intend that
you want this tape to be sealed forever
that's not the that is the case on the part of the judge
that is what the judge has said and he has not said forever and we don't know what the judge is going to do with it after it's been used during the trial
were it not as i said for right wing sleaze republican consultants just lying in wait to get their hands
don't you feel embarrassed
not at all
not at all
don't you feel embarrassed making that kind of attack
i'm sick to death of these tactics
well yeah speaking about
well i think you hurt your own credibility
excuse me
speaking about orwellian i mean let's forget orwell a second and go back and look at history
the history of president's testifying before juries goes back to monroe
now the ones on videotape ford carter reagan none of those were made available to the public
none
now is there some reason why
that's not true
well wait a minute
they were not made available within the period of time that they're asking for this to be done before this trial is over
now it's one thing
well o. k.
o. k. but
i don't think i don't think there's any problem if you let this entire thing take its course and you get through the election so you could be assured it's
oh through the election bob
well wait a second lynne
well by arguing with that then you would say that floyd brown who has asked for this thing the guy who made willie horton i mean can you assure us senator grams assure us that no republican or republican operative would ever use videotape of the president in a commercial against the president politically
well floyd brown doesn't represent
no but could you assure us that
no but he works for your committee
no and to hear to go back to what
plus he works for
lynn said too that president clinton wants to have this stuff made public yet he's thrown up every roadblock he can to keep
he said transcripts senator
he throws out well we don't want it to be abused into the political circle
but they're willing to put the word out of what he
that's another excuse
says
they're willing to
o. k.
let's just why can't we all posit that the tape should not be released until the trial is over
i'm perfectly willing to posit that
and including all appeals
including all appeals and anything associated
oh bob
well sure
let's just get the trial over
number
no because lynne the only reason you guys want this thing out there why what is the big deal
they're going to give transcripts
why is it that
word for word what he says
why do you need a videotape
why is it that conservatives end up defending freedom of speech
liberals used to do a good job of it but
because people like floyd brown
you've forgotten
forgot what freedom of speech is
he understands what freedom of slander is
well let me let me ask lynn a question here
what i've noticed and i want to thank both of you very much for being here today is that while the oh people who are worried that whitewater is something real and important that we need to get to the bottom of while we have elected spokesmen on that side senators congressmen are very rare in defending the clintons on the other side
what we have is a group of designated defenders of which you are one
well that's not
and ann lewis is one
that is not accurate
we have several senators and several congressmen who speak on behalf of this issue and i know because i often call them to go on the shows
marty meehan has just jumped in in a very big way on the ken starr issue the congressman from massachusetts
the sen the president
real star
i've never heard of his name before i'm sorry to say
well that doesn't mean anything
i'm sorry lynne
if you'd been to massachusetts
it's very hard to get elected people to come on this show and defend whitewater and my theory is
well this show is
let me
this show is a separate thing all by itself
you have to be a little crazy to come on this show you have to admit
well i beg your pardon
perhaps so but we've had plenty of crazy democrats willing to come on on other topics
and republicans
let me tell you
go ahead rod
i was just going to say i was invited to be on c. n. n. earlier this morning with a democratic counterpart
we could not get a senator or a congressman to come on and talk about whitewater
this has happened a number of times even dealing crossfire dealing with whitewater
so we cannot drag a senator a democratic senator into these studios
that's not true
to talk about whitewater
well senator
senator simon's been out
senator pryor's been out
well let me
let me advance a theory
let me advance a theory and we'll let bob comment on this too if he wants
it is very dangerous for an elected official to get out front defending the clintons on whitewater because you never know what's going to happen tomorrow
maybe mrs. clinton's billing logs turn up in the white house or maybe it turns out that there was a vince foster notebook on travelgate
it's very dangerous
in fact if i were you betsey wright yesterday said that the clintons had told her in nineteen eighty six that they were out of whitewater
they apparently have not even been truthful with people close to them
well it's but you know lynne you know you asked me a question
this is a
that's a gloss over of the truth
this is a very complicated issue
there are people speaking out
look the two biggest nastiest sleazy operations in the history of american politics at least since the second world war watergate and reagan's iran contra i never saw any republican stepping forward to defend ollie north who should be in jail not running for the senate
fortunately he lost
or in watergate i didn't notice republicans running out
well you
look the fact of the matter is this is an election year
i'll concede that to you
this is not an easy thing to do but republicans are so politicizing this
they are so desperate to try to beat clinton
they can't beat him on anything else so they bring out whitewater
i mean when are you going to quit
it's over finished done
you lose
let me bob my husband wrote the minority report on iran contra and a sitting congressman
so he was very much out front on that
but he was on the committee
he was on the committee
the point is that no matter what this committee does ultimately they have to go back to the independent counsel
so why all this showboating why nineteen witnesses recycled why another six hundred thousand dollars being spent when ultimately they can't do anything about it anyway
because
it's all about politics
lynn every day something new is turned up
wrong
senator grams' committee yesterday had betsey wright testify that when
that was nothing new
betsey has said all of this before
please lynn let me finish and then i'll accord the same privilege to you had betsey wright saying that when mrs. clinton's loan was late for the little trailer thing they built on the whitewater property when her loan was late instead of mrs. clinton calling the bank and saying oh i'll pay right away they had the state bank examiner write the bank and say quit bugging the clintons about this loan now that is
that's not what that note said
that is a total distortion
it was written on stationery
and betsey said he shouldn't have done it
total distortion
excuse me
we'll give you both a chance to respond
when we come back we're going to ask our guests whether they think in fact any of this is going to affect bill clinton's reelection to the presidency
we've heard in recent days statements by various attack men for the republican party about their desire to use the videotape in political ads and it just doesn't make sense
this is another example of how they're not willing to disclose the president's testimony
if he has nothing to hide he ought to just allow his testimony to be freed to the media to the public to everybody
this president for whatever reason has a higher level of perception among the voters that he doesn't tell the truth of any president we've seen
so clearly if that perception is reinforced when this incident is all over it will have a political risk for the president
people see the entire republican party as being obsessed in a sick and partisan way with a land deal that lost money and they have been going on and on and on and the people of the united states are saying shut up
there's nothing there
just shut up and the more they talk i think the better it is for us
love you james
welcome back to crossfire sunday
president clinton gave testimony today by videotape in the trial of his former whitewater land development partners jim and susan mcdougal
republicans as you would guess are demanding the taped testimony be made public
the white house insists that the republicans will distort the tape for use in the upcoming presidential election nah and have offered transcripts only
the longest and most expensive congressional investigation in history is scheduled to close in mid june
to discuss the impact if any of whitewater on the presidential campaign lynn cutler and rod grams of minnesota
lynne
the democrats have been trying to say that whitewater is dissipating
james carville of course said it in the rudest possible way but i wonder if some of the things that the designated defenders of the clintons have been doing doesn't show an increased desperation
ann lewis sent out a thousand faxes last week saying that james stewart's bestselling book blood sport exonerated the clintons which led mr. stewart to go on television and say i quote i provide plenty of evidence in the book that i think warrants further investigation into criminal and legal activity
number
i read the book lynne
i read the book
well as i did too
and it does exonerate the president and mrs. clinton and
oh how can you say that with a straight face
mr. stewart went on the air mr. stewart went on the air because he was afraid his book sales might not be as good
in fact during his whole book tour he got more and more
attack the person again
strident but let's talk for a moment about what the overall these hearings are i mean attack the person
what is all of this about
senator you're spending you know now sixty three days one day on the whole plan the republicans had to do away with medicare or cut it in a draconian way and
no no no
we're not cutting medicare
now medicare
or what happened to the banking bill
where is the banking bill
you guys have the biggest banking change in sixty years here
why don't you get back to the topic
why don't we go back to the topic
why don't we get back to business as our group says
back to business
let me well i'll get back on it
now i know that the focus now is on contributions supposedly from the mcdougal loan into the clinton campaign
now when you get into the issue of where money comes from in politics you're into a very sticky area and case in point in the last week senator dole has had a number of questions raised about money to his presidential campaign
lynne used a quote
let me use a quote from senator dole
in this business you don't know where giving comes from
we turn it over to the f. e. c. now i would exonerate senator dole
you really don't know this but isn't that really now scraping at the bottom of the barrel a fund raiser that took place fifteen years ago and you know you've raised a lot of money
you don't know who's in those rooms
even if something was wrong the president of the united states didn't know that
i know there's a lot of times that money can be con given in a campaign you don't know where it comes from but we got a look at this and we know there were meetings held where the mcdougals were friends of mr. mallard mr. mallard a friend of the clintons
even mr. wooteneps who is the head of the arkansas housing development authority who is going to have this lease was so against it he even went to the president and asked him to squash it and the president said no
so the president was very close to this
he knew where this money was coming from
he knew very well it was coming from one account in madison to another
so to say that the president was blindsided by this
i don't think the
this is not
no that there is absolutely
senator grams if
no proof to that and the fact
there is proof
there has been meetings held between them
the fact that the defense has called the president not the prosecution and that hale has sold his soul for a mess of porridge is just
but lynn
somehow hale is all wrong and the president's all right
well but let me ask you this though
after all these months i mean i don't know of another ongoing grand jury investigation that's been going on as long as this
if after two investigators special counsels all this evidence there is not one scintilla of information connecting the president of the united states with illegal activities or i would assume they would have moved to indict him therefore after all this time isn't it safe to say at least that mcdougal may have had problems other people but the president of the united states has proven now to not be culpable of any of these allegations
i know those charges or
or the first lady
innuendoes are yet to be determined but one thing bob if there is nothing to whitewater why has the white house been consumed with it since january of nineteen ninety three
because you guys
because you guys have been consumed with it
why
he has half of the white house right now working to spin it lynn cutler on the outside with back to business independents trying to
because
they are consumed with
because you guys are
you know senator wait a minute
because al d'amato between his own ethics committee hearings had made this thing a charade
he's got that guy chertoff or whatever his name is up there
the guy ought to go back to his law firm
this is over and over the same stuff over and over
can't you let it go
i mean nobody's been investigated this much and this isn't even a big deal
this is a broken land deal that took place in the late seventies
who are we kidding
that's only the heart of it but
well it
there's a lot of things when we go into the campaign contributions the misabuse of funds the
well fine
let's go up to that guy in massachusetts that funneled a bunch of money to the dole campaign
malcolm said it best
for bob dole to put al d'amato in charge of ethics is like asking bob packwood to do women's outreach
oh that's very funny
let's get to what i think is probably the most important thing that happened this week in terms of whitewater that we haven't talked about at all and that is the hiring of roger adelman a prosecuting attorney who is very tough who put abscam people in jail to head the travelgate portion of the whitewater hearings and everything anybody inside tells me is that this is the most important and vulnerable place for the clintons because mrs. clinton is on record she sent attorneys out she has said herself that she had nothing to do with the whitewater firings but there is all sorts of thank you very much for the travel office firings but there is all sorts of contemporary evidence that she did notes by david watkins notes by an al gore aide
there is a heavy contradiction in place here and with roger adelman in charge i would be worried
on this one as time goes by
janet reno the president's attorney general asked the independent counsel to take this issue up because david watkins is the one with contradictory stuff on paper not the first lady
the first lady has said the same thing from the beginning under deposition and it's david watkins' memos that are all over the place
we'll see what happens on this one lynne
they cannot possibly go after david watkins and not go after mrs. clinton
it simply would be impossible
i disagree with you totally
senator grams you i don't agree with you politically but i've always respected you as an honest fellow
do you think as we look to the november elections just as a political observer do you really believe that whitewater is going to be an issue in these fall elections that is going to cost the president of the united states or right now based on what we know would you say it's pretty much of a wash
i think
and remember i said something nice about your integrity
i think it could be detrimental but again i go back and the president is very concerned about this
i mean the whole country is and when you say they're getting tired of it i don't believe that
i think the people really want some answers to some of the questions
we've got a president that was deposed today we've got a first lady who had to appear before a grand jury we've got democrats who filibustered this investigation in the house and we've got senators that won't come on the talk shows
we've got republicans who won't talk about minimum wage
but yes i think it's going to be a factor in the election because the president has made it a factor
he is very concerned
o. k. but but senator grams no poll backs i looked at the poll data on this recently
thirty three percent of the voting public say that they think the clintons have something to hide
o. k.
now if you look at the demographics and who those people are they are rock ribbed conservative republicans who don't like bill clinton
so in the scheme of things the vast electorate out there that aren't focused on this as a witch hunt really don't care
and i'll give you another anecdote
i was in iowa my home just last week senator and jim leach is under tremendous attack at home chairman of the banking committee on the house side for attacking the first lady for wasting all this money when student loans at the university of iowa are going into the tank
this is going to be a big political issue that's going to rebound on some of you guys
let me bring in some polling data and that's the data that shows that president clinton's weakest point is in terms of people trusting him
people feel uneasy about whether the president tells the truth from day to day whether his word can trusted
i would let me suggest to you at a minimum say that whitewater as a very minimum whitewater will impact this election because it so reinforces this image of bill clinton and mrs. clinton as people who can't be trusted and who aren't as truthful as they should be
the potential is always there and that's why i do what i do
o. k.
let me do a wrapup with you senator grams
we've run out of time here
after this committee is done june fourteenth can we be convinced here now that we're not going to have the congress revisit this again
can we finally say you've done your job and it's over
unless there's some major development i don't see the hearings going past june fourteenth but we're going to have to wait and see but after we're done we're going to write the report by june seventeenth
it will be handed over to the special prosecutor and then we want to get out of town or finish the business we've got to do and
all i can say on this sunday is praise the lord
lynne
lynn cutler you were a little unclear to i was a little unclear about your last statement that this is why you do what you do
i don't think there was anything unclear about it
why i defend the president and the first lady and why we continue to put the other side of the story out because
somebody has got to do it
there is well no
because there is a continuing misstatement of fact over and over about the issues in this case which are very arcane and very difficult and that's why people are tired of it
i would tell you about the biggest misstatements
we've got to wrap
of fact but the producers say we've got to go
i want to thank you very much lynn cutler for being with us
thank you
thank you very much senator grams for being with us
thank you lynne
bob and i will be back in a minute and tell you whether the rapids are ahead or if we've passed over them already
i'm going to confess i don't know how whitewater's going to turn out but i can tell you it's already feeding into other things the administration is doing leaving a bad impression
for example the president says we are not going to have arms going into bosnia all the while he's hiding his eyes and letting the iranians send them in
it just feeds this whole notion he doesn't tell the truth
you got the iran thing in on this show
i'll tell you i think it's the d'amato and his committee are bankrupt i think they're reaching for straws i think clinton is over the hump on whitewater and i think he's going to be just fine and get reelected
from the left i'm bob beckel
good night for crossfire sunday
and from the right i'm lynne cheney
join us tomorrow night for another edition of crossfire same time seven thirty p. m.
eastern
it is now early monday morning in australia where hundreds of police near port arthur surround a cottage hiding a suspected mass killer and his hostages
the twenty nine year old man opened fire at the ruins of a colonial prison on the island of tasmania sunday killing at least thirty two people some of them children
witnesses say he pulled a high powered rifle from a tennis bag and began methodically shooting people in a cafeteria then went outside to shoot more taking careful aim
he wounded eighteen people some critically
an american was slightly injured
more than two hundred police surround the cottage where he is holed up with the cottage's owners and a guest
police say the gunman is a twenty nine year old mentally handicapped man with a history of emotional problems
he is from a nearby town
the port arthur penal colony was one of australia's most brutal prisons during the nation's colonial era and has become one of tasmania's most popular tourist attractions
witnesses seemed stunned by what they saw
officials say thirty of the dead are australians two are canadian citizens
the standoff between the gunman and police has stretched on for more than fifteen hours
joining us by phone from australia is john raedler with the latest on negotiations to free the hostages and end the ordeal
john
jeanne it has just gone seven a. m.
monday in hobart tasmania and it's a very eerie dawn here very overcast and murky as befits the atmosphere of this city and this island state just below the mainland of australia
police in a briefing here within the half hour have described the hostage situation as continuing but contained they say they are quite confident that they have ringed this bed and breakfast cottage where the gunman is holed up with the three hostages
there are as you mentioned some two hundred police in the area
i might add that other police from the mainland of australia have been flown in overnight and are joining police at the scene now
the police have not had telephone contact with the gunman though for some hours the best part of seven hours now
they say that that is largely due to the gunman's cell phone battery running out
however they hope to reestablish contact with him soon
they have heard shots fired from the gunman about two and a half hours ago
so that is the situation at the moment
the hostage crisis continues
police say they do know who the man is and as you mentioned they described him well in the words of the police commissioner here as intellectually disturbed
can you tell me how hard it would have been for him to get hold of a high powered rifle which is the weapon he used
there are varying degrees of gun control in the various states of australia
in most of the mainland states gun control laws are considered to be significantly strong
from what we've been able to find here in tasmania gun control laws are somewhat more lax than on the mainland
so it apparently is not unusual that a person could have possession of such a weapon in tasmania
but as i think they've found out in the mainland of australia as in tasmania gun laws notwithstanding someone who really wants to get their hands on a weapon to do this sort of thing can ultimately do so
john raedler in australia thank you so much for joining us
this is probably not the way president clinton wanted to spend this warm sunny spring day in washington
he's inside the white house taping his testimony in the whitewater trial
c. n. n.'s bob franken is live outside the white house with the latest
bob
well martin for a while president clinton has been able to view whitewater developments from a distance a short distance but a distance
but now he's been dragged back into the case
it looked like a normal sunday as normal as a president's can be with an early jog and a church service with mrs. clinton later
but after church the president went back to the white house to face lawyers and a videotape camera giving taped testimony for the whitewater trial
he's not a defendant but his formal whitewater partners jim and susan mcdougal are along with the man who replaced bill clinton as governor jim guy tucker
tucker was not here
the mcdougals were strolling by the white house before the testimony began criticizing the independent counsel investigation
i'm never going to be o. k. with it
they've bullied my family
they've bullied my parents
they've hurt everyone in my realm
every friend i have has been tortured by the f. b. i. and the special counsel and i'm never going to be o. k. with that again
the president's taped testimony is aimed at refuting charges from this man david hale who claims governor bill clinton ten years ago pressured him to make an illegal federally backed loan
president clinton calls hale's charges a bunch of bull
as the president testifies here at the white house the judge rules on objections watching by scrambled satellite signal in little rock
under his rule the testimony is supposed to be kept secret the tape not released even after its shown to the jury
white house lawyers argue opponents would use it against the president in the campaign
and on c. n. n.'s late edition with frank sesno republican national chairman haley barbour wouldn't rule that out
no we wouldn't
the fact of the matter though is that the reason this has gone on so long is repeatedly the clinton white house and administration's refused to turn over subpoenaed documents
meanwhile newsweek reports that hillary rodham clinton's long missing legal billing records that turned up in january at the white house had her fingerprints on it
mrs. clinton testified about the record in front of a washington grand jury
her lawyer says the fingerprints are not surprising since she acknowledges she might have seen the records during the ninety two campaign
a white house source called this an outrageous leak just as independent counsel kenneth starr is under criticism for partisanship
starr is not among those here
and the white house is trying to downplay the significance of today's question
i wouldn't read more into this than just the testimony of a defense witness in the case
but obviously this is not just any defense witness
although he's not a defendant in the trial president clinton is the main reason that there is a whitewater investigation
martin
thank you bob
c. n. n.'s bob franken at the white house live
israeli prime minister shimon peres says he expects the truce in lebanon to hold and with that confidence he came to the united states for a three day visit
c. n. n.'s wolf blitzer joins us from the white house with more on the story
wolf
jeanne and with the cease fire along the israeli lebanese border apparently in pretty good shape peres did come to washington for some badly needed diplomatic and military support
he received a very warm welcome earlier today at the pentagon and defense secretary william perry announced that the clinton administration was moving ahead with a series of steps to bolster israel security including a new partnership in developing an anti katyusha rocket defense system called the nautilus
in addition perry said the u. s. was expanding its cooperation with israel in a broader anti ballistic missile system
finally he said the two governments were strengthening anti terrorism cooperation including sharing of satellite technology
perry defended the three programs
i think it should be clear to all countries that a provision to provide warning data and provision to provide for the defense of the country is not an aggressive action
it's an action to help provide defense
it should therefore be stabilizing on the one hand
on the other hand you should reduce any incentive for any country to launch a missile because they would see it would be ineffective
peres for his part defended the israeli actions in lebanon blaming the hezbollah forces for starting the fighting
he also denied that the israeli attacks had generated any sympathy for hezbollah
why sympathy not anger
if it wouldn't be for the hezbollah nothing would be damaged
we didn't wake up one morning in the south of lebanon
israel was attacked day after day without any provocation and the hezbollah was hiding among civilians something that forced us to separate between the two of them so not to hit civilian people as much as we could
peres later went to arlington national cemetery to pay his respects to british major general ord wingate a christian who volunteered to fight for israel's independence during the nineteen thirties and later died in action during world war two
tonight both peres and president clinton addressed the american israel public affairs committee here in washington the major u. s. lobbying group for israel
at the same time they are both expected to come back here to the white house after their speeches to continue their discussions
jeanne
wolf what do we expect to hear the president say in his speech tonight
u. s. officials tell us that the president will issue a very strong statement of support
he'll go through all of the recent actions
he'll try to underscore his commitment to continue u. s. involvement in the peace process and make the point that it's only because of the united states playing this intermediary role that there has been progress to date and he's going to try to do everything he can to continue it
wolf blitzer at the white house thanks for joining us
it's been thirty five days since federal agents surrounded a montana ranch where members of an anti government group had gathered
a few of the freemen had since given themselves up and now two negotiators hope they can talk the tenacious ones still inside to come out as well
c. n. n.'s don knapp is in montana and he joins us live to give us the very latest
don
well whatever they're talking about we can assume it's interesting enough to hold everyone's attention because bo gritz and jack mcbride have been inside that farmhouse you see over my shoulder now for about five hours presumably listening talking and negotiating
as we take a closer look at that farmhouse we can imagine the scene that gritz painted for us yesterday
he said inside all the men carried sidearms strapped to their bodies
he said there were weapons in very room by doors and windows at the ready
but he said they were non violent and indeed no shots have been fired since this standoff began
today's negotiating session began at about ten o'clock this morning mountain time
the two outside negotiators the first considered sympathetic to freemen views entered carrying what appeared to be stacks of documents similar to those they carried when they ended saturday's seven hour long first round of talks
gritz was optimistic following that session
i don't feel like there is a lazarus rich man abraham gap here
i think this thing is bridgeable
gritz said those inside were heavily armed determined but possibly running out of food
while reporters and long lenses focused on negotiations another freeman slipped out the fifth to come off the property since the standoff began
thirty seven year old stewart douglas waterhouse surrendered to the f. b. i. on charges he ran a roadblock to join the freemen after the standoff began
he also faces charges of felony intimidation in connection with activity in oklahoma
douglas was jailed in billings and is expected to be arraigned earlier this week
randy weaver whose wife and son were killed by federal agents in a standoff over weapons charges four years ago at ruby ridge idaho has still not entered the freemen ranch
saturday gritz said freemen were impressed by weaver's success in fighting federal charges and were interested in hooking up with weaver's attorney gerry spence
gritz also said he felt weaver's story could persuade freemen to end the standoff peacefully
he has his three daughters hat he's missing his bride and his little boy
there's these little girls in there
i want those moms to hear randy weaver
an estimated twenty two freemen remain on the ranch including four women a teenaged girl and two female children
gritz may be playing well to the freemen but how's he playing in the ranching community
i have tremendous respect for colonel gritz great fellow
but if he is out there because he thinks these are patriots of some kind he's being led down the wrong path
the f. b. i. has not said what it thinks of gritz and mclamb's negotiating but clearly they've approved of it
however they have not approved so far at least to allow randy weaver to go in
they've kept weaver out
back to you
don why do you think that is
why do you think randy weaver is not being allowed in
we can't say for sure
they haven't given us any official reasons
but we know that early on one of the criteria for allowing people to go in was that they would not take any food or weapons or fuel in and the other criteria was that they would not agitate the situation
so perhaps there is some concern that weaver with his reputation and his history might agitate the situation
we're not just sure
yes that's understandable
thank you very much
don knapp in montana
hello and welcome to future watch
i'm donna kelley
shopping malls are not just for shopping anymore
ask any teen ager
i like to come hang out with my friends and go to the arcade and you know pump some quarters in the machine and you know get my grove on on the machine
i just like to come and hang out
and walk around and talk eat
i go to mall to pick up girls
you can do it all at the mall grab some fries exercise buy a shirt stop to flirt
while malls are popular hangouts places to go they're still places of business
and experts say that aging shopping malls must adapt or disappear
cathy nellis examines the reinvention of the shopping center as we go mall crawling at the biggest mall of all
it's the megamall of them all
and it brings a new twist to the phrase shop til you drop
it has slides and rides ships with sails and sales of all kinds
and it's making waves in the shopping world
west edmonton mall in edmonton alberta canada is the biggest shopping mall in the world
it covers twenty four square blocks the equivalent of one hundred fifteen american football fields
there are more than eight hundred stores and that's just the beginning
spend a quiet moment in the mall chapel
or try your luck in the casino
this mall has it all
we have dentists doctors optical everything but a funeral parlor really
general manager gary hanson explains that the mall has three major parts
the retail stores a hotel and enough rides and attractions to make it the world's largest indoor amusement park
wherever you turn there's lots to see and do
like skating on a gigantic ice rink
or making a splash at the huge indoor water park
this is part of the mall's deep sea adventure
it's billed as the world's biggest indoor lake
it has four submarines the same number as the entire canadian navy
take a ride on a sub to see more than one hundred types of marine life
back on the surface there's a life size replica of the santa maria and a lagoon where four dolphins frolic in three hundred thousand gallons of salt water
then there's the fantasyland hotel where a night's stay can mean a journey through history and geography
there are nine different types of theme rooms in total
we have a hollywood room a roman room a polynesian room an african room victorian coach arabian and igloo
cara banasch says the roman room is one of the most popular
check out the marble statues and pillars and the round velvet draped bed
and take a look at the african room with it's jungle motif bamboo furniture and zebra and cheetah prints there are even bunk beds for kids
the hotel like the mall tries to have something for everyone
the target for for the attractions is the family
and for retailers the woman
because the woman makes all the buying decisions so
customers say it's an experience just to visit the record holding mall
and we just kind of look around and enjoy the show and it's like a real good fashion show everybody especially in the summertime
the only thing you can't buy here is your groceries
yes
but with the exception of that you can get you can get a haircut go swimming hit some rides watch some movies
oh yes
the movies
there are nineteen count 'em nineteen theaters
but is the megamall setting a trend for the future
gary hanson says it's the way to go
but he admits it's unlikely it will be equalled in sheer size
the mall was finished ten years ago at a price of six hundred fifty million dollars a bargain at the time
but since then construction costs have skyrocketed
i don't think in my lifetime there will be a shopping center as big as this one
we built it during hard economic times and took advantage of the the value of the dollar
but i don't think the banks will lend money to build something like this again
but for sure there will be components of entertainment hotel and retail throughout the world
so head for the mall and shop til you drop
but don't forget where you parked
with thirty thousand spaces west edmonton mall holds another title in the guinness book of records world's largest parking lot
in edmonton alberta canada cathy nellis c. n. n. future watch
in just about three months the nineteen ninety six summer olympic games open in atlanta georgia
a city where roadways are often jammed on a normal work day must prepare itself for an estimated three million visitors
olympic organizers and local officials are putting their faith in technology
dan ronan gives us a preview of atlanta's olympic traffic plan and wonders if technology will be up to the task
it will be an olympian task getting hundreds of thousands of people into atlanta's sometimes very congested downtown everyday for the games
i am very much in awe of the challenge that we face in dealing with transportation during the olympics
there will be incidents we will clear them
there will be problems we will deal with them
we won't always fix them but we will manage them
a control center just blocks from the new olympic stadium is the centerpiece of a new one hundred forty million dollars traffic monitoring system
technicians will be able to see what's taking place in real time on many of atlanta's downtown streets and all the important interstate highways and main secondary roads
and the information will be passed on quickly to commuters
as a traveler whether your driving or whether you're riding on trains you'll have a wide variety of input and information devices that you can gather information about the infrastructure so you can make informed timely decisions about to get there what's the best way what's gonna be the price
hundreds of t. v. cameras and sensors were installed along the highways allowing technicians to see traffic problems as they occur
that information and potential alternate route suggestions will then be relayed back to commuters through the message boards and radio traffic reporters
in addition to warning motorists traffic tie ups and accidents can be cleared up faster
they're going to be able to clear an entire roadway
they can change the sequence of traffic lights
they are going to be able to tell people ahead of time what is going on
kalland a veteran observer of the atlanta traffic scene says the new traffic management system would have been needed even without the olympics
there is nothing you can do to save traffic in this town because the interstates are at maximum capacity and you can't pave the city of atlanta or metro atlanta in pavement
you have to do something to manage what is there and the d. o. t. has finally figured it out
police fire and other emergency services will also have access to the system so when an accident occurs they'll be able to get to the scene sooner and clear it up quicker
but monitoring the interstates and the main highways will only be a small part of the olympic travel puzzle
the number of people riding public transportation is expected to at least double
hundreds of extra trains and buses are going to be added when the olympics begin and that's going to be the best way to get around because car traffic near the venues will be very restricted
olympic organizers have sent businesses in downtown atlanta what they say is a comprehensive plan to minimize the congestion
it calls on companies to encourage employees to take vacations during the seventeen days of the olympics
telecommuting is highly recommended as is establishing satellite business locations outside downtown
car and van pools into the city will get top priority in the new high occupancy vehicle lanes and workers will be encouraged to shift their hours coming in early or staying late
the message is come to downtown atlanta to see the games but do it on the bus or subway and expect long delays commuting if you're planning to work during the games
there is not going to be any parking at the venues within the olympic ring in the downtown area
therefore spectators and those people that don't own parking spaces mostly parking spaces that are employees downtown are just not going to have any place to park down here if they do drive down into the downtown city area
tough talk but better to learn it now than in late july when the games are underway
dan ronan c. n. n. future watch
developer james rouse died earlier this month
in some circles among city planners bankers public officials for instance his name was a household word still some americans had never heard of james rouse
his work had touched millions most in very public ways and some in ways that were private
david george recalls the career of james rouse a man who truly changed america
they built his monuments years before he died places like boston's nathaniel hall marketplace south street seaport in new york harbor place in baltimore new orleans riverwalk underground atlanta
with his developments james rouse helped put heart back into the heart of urban america
rouse was one of the pioneers who really came back and helped redevelop downtown
when the rest of the development industry was fleeing to the suburbs rouse was really focusing on developments in the older part of our existing cities
ironically rouse helped fuel that flight to the suburbs
he coined the phrase shopping mall built the first one on the east coast mandawan mall near baltimore forty years ago then six dozen more across the country
he invented the food court
in the nineteen sixties he created columbia a planned new community between baltimore and washington
rouse lived there and today so do ninety thousand others of all races and creeds
but over the years rouse never turned his back on downtown continuing to build in places other builders shunned
i think he was a visionary in that he saw that our metropolitan areas can't really survive without a healthy downtown so i think there was both his values at work and also his business sense as well
if big public places are james rouse's monument small private ones are his legacy
he deplored poverty considered homelessness an affront
in nineteen eighty two he set up a foundation the enterprise foundation to help the poor afford decent housing
in exchange for sweat and hard work low income people got loans and grants that allowed them to open the door to the american dream
sixty one thousand homes were built or renovated over the years and the work goes on
the fruits if you will of free enterprise
the free enterprise business system can function for public purpose for social good as well as for profits for the rich
james crouse was a rich man many times over by the time he received the nation's highest civilian honor the presidential medal of freedom in nineteen ninety five
if every american developer had done what james rouse has done with his life we would have lower crime rates fewer gangs less drugs our children would have a better future our cities would be delightful places to live
that they are as livable as they are is due in no small part to james rouse
david george c. n. n. future watch
when james rouse died on april ninth of lou gehrig's disease he was just two weeks shy of his eighty second birthday
in hyde park the guns salute queen elizabeth on her seventieth birthday
a gesture perhaps rich in irony for the behind the behind the monarch the monarchy under fire as never before
there's something about the idea of royalty which has a kind of mystique
but i think that that mystique has changed and it's declined and a lot of deference the kind of as they say is just gone
they say the monarchy is the embodiment of the nation
it isn't it's the embodiment of the upper classes
in the working class city of birmingham the monarchy makes for the focus of a controversial new play
to me our monarchy is what gives this country a human face and dignity
the point of the play really is not to spread a message as such
it's not a pro republican play
it's a play that tries to dramatize the issues involved
set in the imagined future the need for a monarchy is questioned by a cross part political group seeking to create a british republic and by the young prince who would be king
can this job be beneficial to anyone when all we are is joke fodder for every newspaper and t. v. stand up comic
i think there was an article about princess diana's cellulite recently
i mean it's just so petty and not worth the news and so it's interesting just to have a proper factual debate
a debate over wealth and privilege unearned status unelected
the monarchy was wildly popular when elizabeth the second ascended the throne forty four years ago
there is no question that the monarchy's most visible symbol remains popular
there can be no similar guarantee for queen elizabeth's successor
some say the debate over the institution she represents has reached a pitch not seen since republican oliver cromwell temporarily routed the royalists in the seventeenth century
margaret lowrie c. n. n. london
welcome back to inside politics weekend
now joining us as he does every weekend bill schneider
bill the latest poll numbers
well it's not just one poll this week we have a poll of polls
we looked at all the national polls taken over the past month matching clinton against dole and we averaged them week by week
now here's what we found
clinton's lead has been growing by about two points a week for the past month
a month ago president clinton was thirteen points ahead of bob dole
now he's twenty points ahead
no wonder the republicans are in what the speaker called a funk
we've got fifteen weeks before the conventions start in august and if this keeps up dole is in danger of disappearing before the campaign even starts
so what's behind dole's drop in all of these polls
well wolf there's no evidence that americans have moved to the left
governor whitman said a few minutes ago that americans want smaller government
now if that's right bob dole ought to be doing very well but obviously he's not
so what is behind president clinton's big lead
let's take a look at the story behind the story
i think we need to fight all of our fights on various issues and hopefully carry bob dole with us
carry bob dole with us
wait a minute
isn't dole supposed to be the one who's leading
conservatives believe the country is on their side and they're right
americans still distrust big government
in a national poll taken last week by the los angeles times americans said they preferred a smaller government with fewer services over a larger government with many services by better than two to one
what president clinton has done is to seize the strategic opportunity presented to him by the republican takeover of congress
the republicans made the same mistake the democrats made in the first two years of mr. clinton's presidency they over reached
the democrats came in in nineteen ninety two with a mandate to make government work
instead their health care reform plan threatened to make matters worse
most americans were satisfied with their health care and their health insurance
they wanted the federal government to guarantee health care not take it over
the republicans came in in nineteen ninety four with a mandate to solve problems with less government but their contract with america culminating in last winter's politically disastrous government shutdown threatened to make matters worse
the main reason congress finally passed the nineteen ninety six budget this week seven months late is that congressional republicans could not afford another shutdown
republicans should have learned a lesson from the democrats' experience solve problems don't create problems
above all don't mess around with things that work like the safety net and programs popular with the middle class the kinds of programs president clinton defends in every speech
call them m. squared e. squared
the fundamental structures of medicare and medicaid and our commitments to education and a clean environment protecting medicare and medicaid and our investments in education and in the protection of the environment
m. squared medicare and medicaid e. squared education and the environment
so who does president clinton have to thank for his big lead in the polls
it's not bob dole it's newt gingrich
all right and then there's also b. squared balanced budget
i'm told by the president's closest political advisers he's going to be unrelenting in his pressure on bob dole to sit down and negotiate a seven year balanced budget
i always thought this was a republican issue
well it's supposed to be a republican issue which is exactly why the president wants to take it away from them
if he can negotiate a balanced budget deal his view is what are the republicans going to hit me on
i've already signed a balanced budget
they're going to lose their biggest weapon
so the dick morris political strategy positioning the president in the center seems to be working
it is working and bob dole's strategy is to push the president out of the center which he wants to occupy himself by trying to convince voters with judicial appointments and other policies that he really is a liberal
he wants to resurrect the clinton of the left that was the clinton of nineteen ninety four that lost so badly
o. k. bill schneider thanks again for joining us as you do every weekend
you'll be back next weekend
thanks for joining us for our weekend look inside politics the events the issues the battles the bytes
today bob dole's presidential effort seems to be struggling
we'll get an insider's view from a key dole supporter new jersey governor christine todd whitman
then bill schneider has the story behind the story on what the real problem could be with dole's campaign
plus we will have our political roundup and mark russell
but first bob dole's presidential campaign didn't have such a good week
even some republicans are down on dole
what i see is not nearly as much forward movement and progress as i'd like to see
i mean it's time to break out of funk and boredom and molasses and get cracking get going
unless dole can really get traction against clinton and starts defining the issues against clinton very soon the race could just settle in clinton could just settle in with a ten to twelve point lead and dole may never really get in the game
dole tried to put the best face on the drumbeat of criticism
i read these things about some people are unhappy or this or that
well that happens in politics
but they'll be happier during the inaugural next year and we'll try to find tickets for everyone
and over in the senate more trouble for the majority leader presidential candidate
dole faces republican mutinies on the minimum wage and on health care reform amid charges that running the senate and running for president may not go hand in hand
and now joining us new jersey's governor christine todd whitman
governor whitman thanks so much for joining us on inside politics weekend
i'm glad you made it down the new jersey turnpike
did you drive down or fly
no we flew we flew
i know you say you don't want to be the vice presidential running mate
but what if senator dole were to come to you and say governor we really need you is there any opening there is there any opening that you might be willing to reconsider
no wolf there really isn't
i have said that i want to stay as governor of new jersey for some very real reasons
one of them is i'm having a very good time
i love it
it's a great job
and secondly because i really believe in what we're trying to do and it's going to take some time to finish it off
you can't do it all in two and one half years
there is no one person that's going to make that kind of a difference to a presidential candidate and bob dole doesn't need any particular individual
he has got his choice of a lot of extraordinarily capable people and will be picking someone that's going to add to the strength
but it's going to be bob dole against bill clinton that's really going to be the election
but the polls all show that there's this huge gender gap that on men he's doing all right but when it comes to women he's so far behind
what if he needs you you're a woman and obviously new jersey is a key battleground state that's up for grabs right now
but i have a gender gap too
i think what we're seeing is the problem that the republican party has had to a degree
it's not as huge as many people would like to believe it is but it's still there and i have seen that too
so just putting a woman on the ticket isn't going to convince other women that you're suddenly doing the right thing for them
i believe the republicans just need to get their message out because what they've been doing whether it's at the state level or the federal level has been very very supportive of women and their concerns and needs as family providers and wage earners and business creators and all those things
so who's your candidate
who should he pick as his vice presidential running mate
oh i wouldn't give him any one name
i would like to see him pick someone who is obviously identifiable to the rest of the country as having had executive experience someone who is a governor or was a governor or another elective office that has required you know managing people putting together a budget and delivering programs
somebody outside the beltway
someone outside the beltway
i think that's important
and so you must have a name or two that comes to your mind
well there is you know you have engler and you have voinovich and you have tommy thompson carol campbell is a former governor
there are just a whole host of people who i think would be superb
jim edgar
given the social conservatives in the republican party can he pick someone who supports a woman's right to have an abortion
absolutely
i believe that without question
the majority of the party believes that you can differ on this that the good and honest people differ on that issue that it's not a political litmus test and that even those who are pro life versus those that are pro choice could support candidates on either side
governor pataki of new york says he's going to work to try to get the abortion plank out of the republican platform
do you support him on that issue
i've been working for a long time in discussions and with people in groups to recognize that you can be a good republican and be pro choice and that where i think we ought to focus our attention on preventing unwanted pregnancy
that's a thing that we can all agree on and support groups that work to that and will help women after they get pregnant if they can't live at home find them a place to live during pregnancy so they can bring the child to term or those who can't raise a child or are scared of the adoption services
that's where we should focus our attention not on the issue of choice
so how hard a fight will you make pro choice republicans to change the platform
you personally how hard a fight
i will be there for this
i think we have to as a party not because the platform necessarily in and of itself means that much because nobody's really read all sixty four pages of it
but this has become a litmus test
this has become such a signature issue that unless we send a signal that you can be pro choice and be a good republican we're going to lose a lot of votes in the fall
did president clinton do the right thing when he vetoed the late term abortion legislation
i would have supported that not because i think the technique is anything that we want to see but because it's only used in cases that are extreme medical emergencies and i hate to have government determining for a doctor what procedures they can do when there really are good medical reasons to do something
it is so rarely used that that is not the issue we ought to be focusing on
we ought to be focusing on preventing unwanted pregnancies period the end
so when you say you'll support it you think the president did the right thing by vetoing the legislation
i would have supported the veto
all right
right now obviously the republican party is in turmoil
senator dole seems to have enormous problems twenty points behind in the polls
is one of the problems that he has the buchanan the pat buchanan element in the republican party and the very very tough campaign he just went through in order to get effectively the nomination
well first of all i don't think the republican party is in turmoil
i think we are amazingly strong and that bob dole is doing has done and is doing a very good job at bringing people together
i mean obviously everyone knows we went through a very strenuous primary shall we say or certainly an active primary
but if you look at it the party has come out of that stronger
i am a believer that there is nothing wrong with the primary system and even though you get just a small percentage of the overall voters even republican voters out in primaries bob dole won convincingly
in the vast majority of the primaries he won convincingly and he is putting that together and i think he is going to be in very good shape as far as the republican party is concerned for fall
should pat buchanan have a prime time speech at the republican convention in san diego
i believe there's certainly a role for pat buchanan
i don't think that he necessarily should be given a prime time slot because he's not the candidate
he didn't win
this is bob dole's convention
this is about pulling the party together healing it and going out very unified and strong from san diego in order to win against bill clinton
the focus has got to be this is about the presidency this is about defeating bill clinton and whatever enhances that and promotes that is what we want to do and there is certainly a role for pat buchanan there's no question
he is a republican and has some support
on the issue of the minimum wage which is dividing republicans itself house speaker newt gingrich and senate majority leader bob dole they seem to be struggling with their own party to come up with a cohesive stance
you favor an increase in the nation's minimum wage
well new jersey has a minimum wage that is already above the national so we're not going to be impacted
you just went up to five dollars and five cents
we're five and five five dollars and five cents and have been there for a number of years so i haven't been part of this discussion
what i want to see is action that will help people get to the point where they have a job that pays a living wage
whether that's my concern always in raising the minimum wage and what you have to balance is how many jobs is that going to preclude at the opening entry level
as we try to reform welfare and move people into jobs and into decent jobs i don't want to see those jobs start to dry up because people aren't going to be hiring part time or aren't going to be hiring as many entry level people
so you have to be careful there's a balance here
and i believe that as we look at other things that we can do to enhance people's economic stability that comes down to i think tax cuts to allow them to keep more of the money they earn
i believe it's child care credits
it may be raising the minimum wage as well as part of that overall package
but it has to be seen as a part of a package
if you were in congress you'd vote to increase the minimum wage
well it depends on how it's being presented
we haven't seen a final bill yet
from four dollars and twenty five cents to five dollars and fifteen cents over two years
but is it just a proposal that does that or does it include some other things
i'd want to see some other things included
new jersey is a relatively moderate state moderate republicans not extreme
is this notion that this republican revolution over the past couple of years since the november ninety fourth elections that there is this image out there among some critics obviously that they've been too extreme
has that hurt republicans in new jersey
well the people kept a republican majority in both houses of my legislature last year so our legislature there is still in republican hands
so that would indicate that the public is still very supportive
if you believe polls and that's another part of that original question of bob dole being behind twenty points as being significant i'm not a great believer in that having been twenty points behind two weeks out on elections and done a little bit better than that
i don't think that it has had an impact yet very negative
there is obviously a perception that somehow republicans are against a lot of things rather than promoting a lot of things
there's some of that
it's being hyped by certain people for a whole bunch of reasons and that's a concern
but overall people like and want the kinds of things that republicans got elected on two years ago and last year which is smarter government reduced taxes and more jobs
well as bill clinton has moved towards the center over this past year he's really going after new jersey big time
he is making a lot of visits to new jersey
absolutely
a lot of visits
he's going to be up there again in june
he's going to fight
it's going to be a battle ground state no question
so if the only thing standing in the way of new jersey's going for bill clinton is governor christine todd whitman no way you're going to change your mind
that's not going to be the only thing
it's going to be performance against rhetoric and the people bob dole is going to make a very strong campaign and i believe he's going to win new jersey
and very quickly the yankees moving to new jersey
well if they want to come we'll have them
but we're not going to go out and get into a bidding war for them
governor whitman thanks so much for joining us on inside politics weekend
now time for our weekly appointment with mark russel
and we are back at the monaco on capitol hill
directly behind me the royal members of the monaco bar association
well the democrats and the republicans finally got together on the compromised budget and it's only seven months late
i don't know why they're so smug
you know italy elects three prime ministers in that period of time
well it saved the commerce department it saved the environmental protection agency only now the commerce department's been redesignated as a spotted owl
it saved the corporation for public broadcasting even though the republicans think that p. b. s. is too liberal so now julia child can only serve the right wings of the chickens and big bird has to resign his membership in the american civil liberties union
now the other day on another subject i was walking through times square in new york city and a guy tried to sell me a watch that belong to jackie kennedy
i said no i'll take the rocking chair and the humidor by the time i got over to sothebee's auction house the only thing that was left was the flyswatter once owned by lady bird johnson
you gotta go a long way to find something more tasteless than this auction ladies and gentlemen
little caroline's baby bib with the spitup still on it for fifty five thousand dollars
i mean you get the idea that they're getting one hundred thousand dollars for things you have to get with one of those claw machines on the boardwalk and that jackie and aristotle used to sit around the yacht watching the home shoppers network
hey wolf nice watch
thanks
it wasn't too expensive either
crowds of others are marching for a different purpose
it's the duty of every able bodied muslim to perform the hadj at least once in a lifetime
about two million people are fulfilling the duty marking the climax of the end of the pilgrimage to the holy city mecca
mount arafat just outside mecca is where the prophet mohammad delivered his final sermon nearly fourteen centuries ago
joining us live on the phone from saudi arabia is abdul wahad abu khudair
mr. abu khudair is a saudi t. v. newscaster
right now he's in a tower overlooking the mosque in mecca
mr. abu khudair hello
hi
well we see now that the pilgrims have finished or almost finished their duties and they offered their eight prayers at mecca where a ceremony is taking place right now
the requirements for the pilgrims here the two million who are there in arafat on the eighth day that the men itself are on the way
each pilgrim picks seven pebbles actually which should be a bit larger than a chick pea
and these pebbles actually are used to stone the kabba or a monument which is represents the devil
at every pilgrim
excuse me mr. abu khudair just looking at the pictures right now we're seeing this huge sea of people and they're all circling around this black building
can you tell me what is the purpose of that
what's inside that black building
well this is the holy kabba and what we see right now the pilgrims are doing
you know this is one part of the duties which they do after they finish standing or staying at arafat
well abu khudair how long do they circle around this building or is it a number of times that they must do this
it's a number of times
they go around for seven times around the kabba
and after that we understand that they go to something called the zam zam well
is that something we can see in this picture and what do they do there
well it is not very clear at the moment
you know the zam zam well it is a place i wonder if you see that golden tomb
you know there's a golden tomb on the left side and then they go downstairs and the well is located
it's you know the water which the prophet ishmael had actually discovered near the kabba
o. k.
mr. abu khudair thank you very much for joining us
o. k.
a trip to the library may never be the same in san francisco
the city's new state of the art facility goes way beyond books
fred wayne takes a look
the first thing that strikes visitors is the light flooding the library's central atrium
that's actually what i like about it the most is the natural light
the next thing is the number of computer terminals
they're everywhere on every floor of the seven story building
we're looking up books for quotes
san francisco's one hundred thirty seven million dollar library is the most technologically advanced in the world
at the public library we wanted to make the information this revolution in information accessible to all san franciscans
visitors can surf the internet or watch videos and play c. d.s in the audio visual center
kids explore cyberspace in the children's center by using a special catalogue divided into three age groups
and a first of its kind network of more than two hundred so called walking signs guides visually handicapped people through the building
and it will tell you where the elevators are exits entrances you know
san francisco's history is preserved in a center with city records dating back more than a century
we have a historic photograph collection about three hundred fifty thousand historic photos of san francisco before the nineteen oh six earthquake and after
along with the high tech gadgets the library also has good old fashioned books in fact more than a million of them along with fifty thousand government documents of various kinds
the library is home to a gay and lesbian center the first to be integrated into a major municipal institution from the start
other centers also reflect the city's diversity
thousands of people have come to the library in the week since it opened and applications for library cards are breaking records
it's a feast instead of just a little portion over here floors upon floors of it's a banquet i guess because i love to read
the new library is expected to feed the hunger for knowledge and information into the twenty first century and beyond
fred wayne for c. n. n. san francisco
in australia police say they have arrested the gunman believed responsible for that country's deadliest rampage in a century
prior to his arrest officials say the gunman set fire to the guest house where he was holding at least three hostages
there is no word yet on their fate
before retreating to the cottage police say the man went on a deadly shooting spree
the attacks took place in port arthur on the australian island of tasmania
witnesses say the man was chatting with people at a popular tourist site when police say he walked into a cafe took out a high powered rifle and began gunning people down
officials say at least thirty two people are dead most of them australians
at least eighteen people were wounded including four people in critical condition
joining us now by telephone with more on this breaking story is john raedler
john how did this come to an end
well it came to an end when fire started in the two story cottage where this man was holed up with the hostages
the fire police tell us started in the top story of this two story cottage then spread to the bottom floor
there was a helicopter seen to land someone near the cottage keep in mind the media is being kept several kilometers away from all of this and soon after that police announced that they had taken the gunman into custody
now they do say that he is suffering some minor burns apparently from the fire in the cottage
still no word at this stage jeanne on the fate of the hostages
and at this moment police are now considering letting the media through the barricade now that the siege situation is over and the media expects to get into port arthur the scene of this horror the scene of this massacre sometime here later today
it's just gone ten a. m.
monday in hobart
john what do we know about the gunman and what may have motivated him if anything
varying ages given roughly late twenties apparently described by the police commissioner as being intellectually disturbed a local motivation we don't know
apparently when he arrived at the scene though and before he started shooting he was muttering to himself and he talked something about suggesting that he might have some racial motivation
but police say whilst they have some ideas about his motivations they have not released anything to the press yet
john raedler in australia thank you for joining us
the whitewater spotlight is shining on president clinton today
mr. clinton completed four and a half hours of videotaped testimony as a defense witness in the trial of two whitewater partners and arkansas governor jim guy tucker
c. n. n.'s bob franken has been following this story closely and joins us from the white house with more
well martin present in the room for the four and half hours were various lawyers defendants other court officials legal types and of course a videotape camera
president clinton was testifying before the camera
the tape will be played back before a grand jury in little rock arkansas
now he's not a defendant in the case but he was defending himself against charges from david hale who's the main accuser in the case and also the man who says that president clinton as governor pressured him to make illegal loans which are the core of this whitewater case
now this was an extraordinary day but the president tried to make it look ordinary maintained an early schedule in the morning went to church with the first lady
but when he came back to the white house he went into the map room here to begin his testimony
afterwards some of the defendants and their lawyers who are under court orders strict court orders not to give any information about what actually occurred said they were very happy with the result
well the president appeared to be in good health and good spirits
the chairs were abominably uncomfortable
the prosecution took about four times as long to ask its questions as we took on direct
and i think that's probably about all that i can tell you except that i'm very very satisfied with the proceedings today
i think the president's testimony obviously is corroborative of our position
hopefully it will be unnecessary
we're going to be filing a motion to dismiss the case on behalf of susan when the government rests their case
but if we have to go forward this testimony will be very very helpful to susan mcdougal
now the judge who was watching the proceedings from little rock arkansas over a scrambled satellite system was very strict
he told participants they were not to disclose any of the actual information that was exchanged during the testimony
we have been told by sources in the room that in fact president clinton categorically denied repeated his denials that david hale his main accuser that he had pressured hale
that is about the only information we've been able to get from the room
we've also been told that the tapes will now be sealed until they're played to the jury
thank you
c. n. n.'s bob franken reporting live to us from the white house
the fighting is over but tensions anger and sorrow linger some of it felt around the world two days after israel and hezbollah silenced their weapons
here in washington two arab american groups and their supporters protested today outside the hotel where the american israel public affairs committee is holding its meeting
and in south lebanon thousands of mourners marched to a cemetery to bury some of the victims killed during israel's sixteen day military offensive
israel says the operation was in response to hezbollah attacks
today's protest by arab americans coincides with the start of israeli prime minister shimon peres' three day visit to the u. s. c. n. n. senior white house correspondent wolf blitzer joins us with more on that part of the story
wolf
jeanne president clinton and prime minister peres are about to deliver what their aides describe as major speeches on the u. s. israeli relationship and the broader search for an arab israeli peace
the u. s. brokered cease fire along the israeli lebanese border has encouraged u. s. officials to believe that stalled israeli syrian negotiations may yet get back on track
but with israeli elections scheduled for the end of may prime minister peres has a more immediate problem he's fighting for his own political survival
he is of course hoping that his visit here to washington will strengthen his political standing back home
the clinton administration short of interfering directly in domestic israeli politics is doing everything it can to help peres
kathleen koch has our report
rings of security guards circled israeli prime minister shimon peres as he arrived at the pentagon for a morning of ceremonies and meetings
two hours later peres and defense secretary william perry emerged to sign a new cooperative defense plan
item one the u. s. will now share with israeli data from its early warning satellites
warning will be given in a matter of seconds to any ballistic missile launch that in any way would threaten israel
the nations also agreed to pool resources to develop more sophisticated systems to destroy katyusha rockets or other missiles launched against israel one using lasers the other hypersonic ballistic missile interceptors
perry and peres agreed the weapons will help the peace process
it should therefore be stabilizing on the one hand
on the other hand it should reduce any incentive to any country to launch a missile because they would see it would be ineffective
it's always good to have a defensive weapon not just a pressure against the wrong policies
and i think it will surely help to a very great extent to defend ourselves against those threats
but full funding for the new weapons systems hasn't yet been approved and the technology won't be ready until nineteen ninety seven at the earliest
so in the interim the pentagon is working to adapt weapons like the phalanx rapid fire gun used on navy warships for use on the ground by israel all to help guarantee peace will finally cool the middle east
peres sunday gave his truce with hezbollah a fair chance of success and the white house is urging all parties to move forward
i think the parties now have agreed to the cease fire
they've agreed to try to keep pushing on the peace agreement and we've just got to keep pushing them
besides more help on defense many believe peres may come away from this visit with renewed u. s. support somewhat shaken by the extensive civilian injuries in the recent israeli bombardment of southern lebanon
kathleen koch for c. n. n. washington
after their speeches tonight before the american israel public affairs committee both prime minister peres and president clinton will be coming here to the white house for a first round of talks
more talks are scheduled on tuesday a theme we can expect to hear u. s. israeli relations have never been better
jeanne
wolf blitzer and the white house thank you
the second day of marathon talks have ended at the freemen compound in montana
for seven hours former green beret colonel james bo gritz and a retired police officer met with members of the anti government group
they're trying to end the thirty five day standoff between the freemen and federal agents
c. n. n.'s don knapp has been monitoring developments at the freeman compound and he joins us live with the latest
don
martin bo gritz and jack mclamb spent a very long day with the freemen negotiating inside some seven hours as you say and it looked to us pretty much like a repeat of what happened yesterday
as we look at them getting into their car and departing we'll tell you that they have carried apparently that same bunch of documents that they carried out yesterday and carried in again today
now as they got out they did leave rather rapidly
they came down the dirt road at a high pitch
as they went by us they gave us that same snappy salute and thumbs up that they gave us yesterday
and not far from here at a road block they were stopped by the f. b. i.
now they're coming and going with the f. b. i.'s permission
f. b. i. agents got into the car talked to them a little bit apparently debriefed them and then sent them on their way
we understand they are now going to the four corners area another popular roadblock in this area where they will stop and meet with news people
we have a crew there and of course we will be reporting on whatever it is they have to say about today's negotiations in a little while
meanwhile we will tell you that all of this began at about ten o'clock this morning mountain time
the two outside negotiators the first considered sympathetic to freemen views entered carrying what appeared to be stacks of documents similar to those they carried when they ended saturday's seven hour long first round of talks
gritz was optimistic following that session
i don't feel like there is a lazarus rich man abraham gap here
i think this thing is bridgeable
gritz said those inside were heavily armed determined but possibly running out of food
while reporters and long lenses focused on negotiations another freeman slipped out the fifth to come off the property since the standoff began
thirty seven year old stewart douglas waterhouse surrendered to the f. b. i. on charges he ran a roadblock to join the freemen after the standoff began
he also faces charges of felony intimidation in connection with activity in oklahoma
douglas was jailed in billings and is expected to be arraigned earlier this week
randy weaver whose wife and son were killed by federal agents in a standoff over weapons charges four years ago at ruby ridge idaho has still not entered the freemen ranch
saturday gritz said freemen were impressed by weaver's success in fighting federal charges and were interested in hooking up with weaver's attorney gerry spence
gritz also said he felt weaver's story could persuade freemen to end the standoff peacefully
he has his three daughters but he's missing his bride and his little boy
there's these little girls in there
i want those moms to hear randy weaver
an estimated twenty two freemen remain on the ranch including four women a teenaged girl and two female children
gritz may be playing well to the freemen but how's he playing in the ranching community
i have tremendous respect for colonel gritz great fellow
but if he is out there because he thinks these are patriots of some kind he's being led down the wrong path
the f. b. i. is not saying what they think of gritz and mclamb's negotiating but clearly they're negotiating with f. b. i. permission
they are not allowing randy weaver to negotiate
martin
c. n. n.'s don knapp reported live from montana thank you very much
good evening and welcome to reliable sources
joining us now our panel of media watchers media reporter howard kurtz martin schram syndicated columnist with the scripps howard news service
topic number one going going going did the media become part of the mania
the final bid has now echoed into history but for four days this past week the auctioning of camelot got a lot of t. v. time a lot of front pages
for some news organizations it was the top story of the week
the media turned out in force to cover the sale at sotheby's of some one thousand two hundred items from as you all know the estate of jackie kennedy onassis
sotheby's says there were at least sixty five television crews and close to five hundred accredited journalists from thirty different nations
joining us now from our bureau in new york is john fund editorial writer with the wall street journal
john we've all seen that extravagant coverage for lots of expensive items what was missing in the story
well what was missing i think was some of the context of why there is this tremendous interest in the kennedy family because if you look at the kennedy administration it was the last administration that probably was not examined by the media with the intensity of a proctologist and therefore there's this era aura of innocence about it and the kennedys i think have been idealized and as a result we have this tremendous nostalgia for that era
bernie at the risk of letting a little air out of this discussion i don't think this is that complicated
thirty thousand people showed up in the first few days of this auction
these are people who wanted a piece of history a piece of camelot
maybe you and i think it's not that serious news but it's got nothing but readers
there's a tremendous fascination with the kennedys
john can probably enlighten us for forty five minutes or so why that is but it's a great story
but unlike everybody else i will answer your question bernie
the fact of the matter is there was something missing and it was kind of a cultural context
it was a context that says that just a few blocks away from this auction where millions of dollars are being spent on fake baubles that there were also at the same time bathrooms and schools that are just broken and can't be repaired the kids don't have books paint peeling windows broken et cetera and maybe it would be good to put the whole city into the context of that auction
let me pick up your point marty
it seems to me that what was missing by the media in this story was some cultural and social commentary on what the hoopla at sotheby's represented at this particular moment in american history
but lots and lots of journalists from all kinds of publications went out and asked people why are you here why are you interested in this
we got all kinds of explanations
you seem to be wanting some kind of national psychoanalysis
i do want something like because the people who were being quoted the thirty thousand that you're referring to were there for obvious reasons to join in the excitement and maybe spend a million or two
i'm talking about something beyond that
to take a look at the scene of this money of this wealth of these auctions et cetera and draw some conclusions some social and cultural conclusions about america
john i thought you came on that very hard
you're sort of excavating the the not only the memory the grave of j. f. k. and said at that particular moment it was not being examined
i didn't feel that in the stories
no i'm simply saying that the people who were there i think have a thirty year nostalgic remembrance of the kennedy administration for many good reasons
it was an aura of innocence
if you look back at that time it was a much less complicated time in american life
people miss it and the kennedys if you look at the tremendous amount of bidding that went on the people want a piece of that
so it was a great business story as well as political story
let me just add something here
at c. n. n. on wednesday it was the top story of the day three hundred six phone calls one hundred six pieces of mail e. mail five hundred seventy three
some opposed this exhibition of tastelessness others disagreed
huge numbers of people asked how to order the catalogue
but they all watched
and so did i
right
bernie the reason this gets so much attention is the same reason that princess di has been on the cover people one hundred ninety seven times
there is a national fascination whether you or i like it or not with the celebrities with rich with people who live a different lifestyle than than most journalists frankly
if you three celebrities will stick around we're going to come back in a moment or two with bob dole and his current image in the media
welcome back
topic number two bob dole not the best of times
from around the country these reports on the de facto republican presidential candidate
from the west coast the los angeles times like twin anchors disappointment with the republican congress and a lack of enthusiasm for senator bob dole are dragging the g. o. p. into dangerous waters
from the east cost the washington post describes dole as running into a democratic ambush on the minimum wage issue facing a rebuff on health care culminating in a week dole would rather forget
a new york times editorial speaks of dole as having bungled and stumbled in his senate leadership role and from middle america the chicago tribune says rather than dole controlling congress it seemed this week that congress is controlling dole
the hardest blow against dole came not from the daily newspapers but from a fellow republican
bob dole is likely to lose the presidential race to bill clinton
he may lose badly the opinion of william kristol editor of the conservative weekly standard
welcome back to reliable sources
john fund of the wall street journal what you just heard an accurate media picture of bob dole
well bob dole has been part of his own problem because his version of the english language sounds like clint eastwood in a spaghetti western
but on the other hand he's not been given a fair shake by some of the media because as the recent freedom forum poll showed eighty nine percent of the media voted for bill clinton in nineteen ninety two if they worked in washington and only four percent are registered republicans
so you can't really expect them to cooperate in help getting bob dole's message out
bob dole has to do a much better job
but the one thing the media i think has failed in is it's failed in context
at this point in the ninety two campaign bush was ahead of clinton
at this point in the eighty eight campaign dukakis was head of bush
at this point in the eighty campaign carter was ahead of reagan so we have to understand this is why have a campaign
there's six months left for bob dole to recover
excuse me you just made the accusation that bob dole cannot get a fair shake in the media because of the percentages you've given us
marty you agree or disagree
oh i john you know i disagree with john and i'll tell you why john
just last week we sat here on this set and we talked all about that poll that showed how many journalists eighty nine percent voted for clinton
yes journalists in washington are liberal and all of that is true
this does not happen to be one of those stories that bears it out
let me tell you who's really dumping on dole the hardest
it's bill bennett calls him incoherent and dispassionate
bill kristol bob novak listen to what bob novak says
he says that anything dole does would not solve the biggest problem which happens to be bob dole
with each passing day it becomes clearer his strength of character and negotiating skills are insufficient to defeat bill clinton and may not be useful in a race against him
that's the problem
bob novak's not a big liberal now is he
bernie i think senator dole's problem is not so much with the press corps right now but with the fact that with that compressed primary schedule he didn't really get a victory lap that most nominees get and the campaign suddenly moved to the senate floor where democrats with malice aforethought are doing their best to make dole stumble and look bad
that's what we're covering right now and also the dole campaign is out of money
so it is hard for dole to get message out whether reporters like him or not
john you omitted it seems to me the coverage that the media has given bill clinton and it's been pretty rough from day one
i agree
on the other hand if you look at the coverage of whitewater i see constant stories that whitewater is over for the president he doesn't have anymore worries about it and yet the president is going to be testifying on video tape for eight hours on sunday
so on that i think the media's gone into one of its quiescent periods
on john's point about the context and the six months to go i do agree that sometimes we get too caught up in the polls of the moment
but that raises an interesting point bernie which is the media are notorious front runners when it comes to polls
dole is fifteen to twenty points down therefore all these stories about why he's doing so poorly
if dole was fifteen points up in the polls he could be getting a sun tan in bal harbor and we'd be writing stories about what a great campaign it was
we are overly influenced i think by these momentary snapshots in the polls
i agree with howard because the reason we have campaigns in america is so that we can have these issues debated and so we decide at the end of the campaign rather than at the beginning of the campaign
it seems to me the media is trying to declare the campaign over before it's begun
that's a good point
i think that you are leaping
you've become a how shall i put it an undertaker for the media in the way it deals with bob dole
it seems to me that we ticked off a steady tattoo of various newspapers across the country that in fact are using republican language using republicans to portray dole
now i recognize you're using these statistics but let me ask you this john
is it do you take it automatic that the way a person writes will dictate the shape of the story
think of your own newspaper
are you telling me that you cannot find someone who voted for clinton on your paper
bernie what i think we should do is ask the american people do you think that most journalists can remove their professional biases from their coverage and i would think that would be a very interesting subject because i think that's one of the reasons why there is less confidence in the media today because more and more people think that journalists can't remove their biases from their coverage
but john you know the freedom forum also came out with another poll another recent poll which says that viewers view most news sources and fair and unbiased sources of campaign information so
with an enormous thirty to forty percent minority saying we don't believe most of it
look let's face it john the real the real problem bob dole has right now is not just that the campaign is over but suddenly we're back focusing on the congress again
real issues have come up
not the kind of things you can just give speeches about they have to be votes and bob dole's problem was votes on minimum wage
i agree with that
votes on the health plan and they always bounded against him
howie go ahead
and it was just last sunday that senator dole was on face the nation and he gave a performance that was so lackluster that your favorite conservative columnist marty bob novak said it was the worst interview by a presidential candidate since ted kennedy in nineteen seventy nine
so the one thing i think we might agree on is that senator dole has created some of his own problems during this
he is rhetorically challenged of course
john you've got the last word rhetorically challenged that will resonate through election day
john fund of the wall street journal thanks very much for joining us
when we come back the free roaming t. v. camera tripped by the law
welcome back
topic number three t. v. cameras under attack again
a new debate has erupted that focuses on a never ending issue the rights of the media versus the right to privacy
these are the details
a federal judge in pennsylvania two weeks ago cited a television journalist for harassing hounding following intruding frightening terrorizing and ambushing a private business executive
reporter steve wilson from the syndicated magazine show inside edition was criticized for invasion of privacy while pursuing a story on a u. s. health care executive responsible for cutting subscriber benefits while collecting a multi million dollar salary
wilson argued that he was merely gathering footage to support and illustrate his report after the company officials had turned down an invitation to be interviewed on camera
joining us now from our new york bureau is the reporter in the midst of this controversy steve wilson of inside edition
steve terrorizing someone you're covering
no not at all simply doing what reporters and investigative reporters but not just investigative reporters all reporters do in this country every day
but you must have done something i would think for the judge to give you this catalog of attacking verbs as to your behavior your journalistic behavior
well what happened here was this case started with a claim to the judge made by attorneys representing mr. and mrs. wolfson the two people who filed the suit that we were doing a number of things including following their three year old child to nursery school
that was never true
it never happened
it was stated in court that it never happened and all of the eyewitnesses said it didn't happen
that was where that case started from and from there it went on to the long litany of criticisms which you illustrated a minute ago
steve inside edition has made some progress in the last couple of years doing more serious stories and kind of shedding its old trashy image
when you do things like rent a boat and take pictures of a vacation home through the drawn blinds of a guy in his pajamas aren't you giving ammunition to critics and kind of feeding into the worst tabloid stereotypes that you were trying to leave behind with this program
let me tell you we did solid investigative reporting
there's nothing wrong with a reporter getting a boat to go out into a public waterway and take the same kind of picture that you or i could take as a tourist on a tour boat going up and down there
but steve those pictures were not part of the investigative reporting
you had the story
it's a good story
the only reason you needed those pictures is because television likes to have dramatic visuals
but let me ask you something if i could just jump in let me ask you this howard what's wrong with taking those pictures
the question here is how far should you go in following people around in a van in a boat or playing you name it when they simply don't want their pictures taken and at what point does it become harassment
i don't like to see a court get involved here but on the other hand i think some of this conduct was questionable
that's the point
i think we shouldn't we shouldn't lump everything as investigative journalism
this isn't really investigative journalism going out on a boat and taking pictures or shooting through a window at a guy in his pajamas and the microphone picked up there he is he's in his pajamas stay on him stay on him stay on him
hold on just a second
this is not investi
that's exactly what it is
well just let me finish
that is investigative reporting
that's exactly what it is
well that's where see i've done a lot of investigative reporting in my time for newspapers and i'll tell you we don't think that's investigative reporting
well i'm not
i think it's investigative reporting to go after people who've done wrong things and look at the records expose them interview and do a story
i don't like to pry into a family
well i it's not a matter of prying into a family
it's a matter of the public having the right to know the executives who are making decisions that affect your wife or your daughter or someone who's in a hospital who's being told to get out of the hospital in twenty four hours after giving birth to a baby because the h. m. o. wants to save money
at the same time they don't seem so concerned about saving money when it comes to giving compensation to the head of the h. m. o. and members of his close family who are executives
i i have full respect for what newspapers do did and i'll tell you i don't think i'm going to get any any dispute that journalism has changed a bit and television is certainly different than newspapers and i'm not going to defend the fact that television relies on pictures to a greater extent than newspapers do
but there's nothing wrong with a reporter standing in a public place taking a look watching seeing what he sees taking pictures and using those pictures to illustrate a story that i can't imagine a story of more importance than the life and death issues that people like this make every day
steve the lawyer of your subject says that the kind of activity you're engaging in is the type of stuff that gives the first amendment a black eye
well that that that individual has said a number of things with which i don't agree and that's one of them
the fact of the matter is that we were standing in public places pursuing a story that we feel is newsworthy and we still feel that it's newsworthy
the piece which ran on friday night across the country was a fair piece it was a balanced piece it was an honest and important piece of journalism
there have been a lot of things that the attorneys for the other side have said and we feel that we will eventually prevail
let me just add that c. b. s. n. b. c. and a. b. c. say that they have agreed to file friends of the court briefs and that c. n. n. is considering taking that position
and i was just going to say that i'm really sorry to see those networks joining in on this
i think we can defend the first amendment without having to rush to jump on to every case even one that might have had some questionable practices
that went beyond what i would like to see journalists doing
steve wilson just briefly one of the things that led to the judge's strong language here was the fact that the family was scared because when you originally had this van with the tinted windows and was taking the footage they didn't know who the hell you were and for all they knew they were being stalked by somebody
looking back don't you wish you had not done that particular thing in a way just because of how it looks to the public
i wish i knew then what i still don't know now and that is the nature of the fears that these people have
i've heard repeated over and over again that these people were scared to death they were going to be kidnapped and that's why they were so afraid
i've never heard any any positive proof of any of that
i'm not saying that it doesn't exist perhaps that it does and let me also say the moment the moment that i personally in the field heard that they had called our new york office and claimed that they were afraid of kidnappers and they didn't know who we were i picked up the telephone in my car and i called that woman and i said my name is steve wilson
i'm an investigative reporter
we have not followed your child
we have no interest in following or photographing your children
we are reporters
we're working on a story
you have nothing to fear from us
i don't what else i can do
steve point made
steve wilson of inside edition thank you very much for joining us
thank you
when we come back the voice of bigotry off the air
welcome back
the good bad and ugly is what we usually do at this point of the broadcast
today we'll concentrate on the ugly
our topic number four bigotry and free speech
the highest rated radio talker in new york was fired the other day an action that a lot of people cheered
but curiously it also raised a couple of journalistic questions
even if the talker bob grant of w. a. b. c. has a reputation for bigotry racism and all around hate mongering is he not protected by the free speech amendment
but beyond that was the action taken by the station's new owner disney which recently bought up cap cities a. b. c. was the action based on editorial content or a desire to avoid controversy
the firing took place only after a barrage of protest
howie let's forget about bob grant for the moment which i think is a very good idea and let's talk about whether the mergers will stand
will they stand and take the heat or will be introduced to a kind of monotone an editorial monotone because they want to resist pressures and they don't want to sully their image and so forth
well the fact is bernie we don't know where disney a. b. c. stands on this because the only public statement the company has made is a lie
they said that bob grant was leaving by mutual agreement
l. i e. lie
that is simply untrue and so after despite repeated requests for interviews the company has given no explanation
were they fed up with bob grant's brand of incendiary radio
were they trying to send a message
were they trying to cave in to a liberal pressure campaign
nothing just silence from a. b. c.
let's go beyond that
the mergers that are taking place involving various networks are we going to see kind of homogenized news because of an anxiety of taking on the public
you know i don't think
will they take the heat
that's a good question
i don't think we're going to bernie
i don't think we're going to see homogenized news but i have to go back to howie's point because it sure as heck would help us understand just what a. b. c. and disney believe if they would just say what they believe and why they did what they did
in this case in the bob grant case the fact of the matter is he is a bigot he is a racist
he had been saying these bigoted and racist things for a long time and you don't have to have everyone on your air saying that in order to be non homogenized
bigot though me may be he is still protected by the first amendment and free speech
i don't have to hire him
there's no first amendment right to have your own radio show
absolutely not
so let's
the reason this is troubling let me just slip this in bernie is that while i might not be a fan of bob grant's brand of radio there might be other people whose opinions i do enjoy listening to and if anytime somebody come under this kind of assault from columnists and activists who want to knock somebody off the air and the company caves then this will lead to the kind of bland radio that you fear
didn't w. a. b. c. fire professor alan dershowitz at harvard who was on the liberal side of things just about a month ago
exactly
the new york station dropped his radio show because he had the temerity to criticize bob grant as a bigot
he called him a racist
he called him a racist and a bigot which of course he happened to be accurate
i'm going to tap into your wisdom
bob grant how soon do you think he'll be re hired by some radio station in new york
i would say within about a week
his ratings were sky high and there will always be those stations that care less about the content or about the tone that a radio host sets as about the money that he can bring in by attracting an audience
dr. kurtz dr. schram thank you very much for joining us
that's all our time for now
thanks again to our guests our panel and to you our viewers
join us again next sunday same time six thirty p. m.
eastern
i'm bernard kalb
democrats and republicans face off
they may have worked out a budget deal but don't be fooled
peace has not exactly been declared between democrats and republicans in washington
with six months till the general election what are the parties' top political strategists cooking up
the chairmen of the democratic and republican parties face off straight ahead on late edition
live from c. n. n. in washington this is late edition with frank sesno
hello everybody
it's sunday april twenty eighth nineteen ninety six
to our viewers in the united states and around the world welcome to late edition where we talk to the people at the top of the news and take your phone calls
today we are very much in the midst of election year politics here in washington
they're dominating the discussion from the latest budget deal to the minimum wage debate to the president's whitewater testimony everything touched by presidential politics
we'll talk about what we can expect to see and hear with two of the main political architects in town
q. and a today with the general chairman of the democratic national committee senator christopher dodd and with the chairman of the republican national committee haley barbour plus our journalist roundtable and bruce morton's last word
first to catherine callaway at the c. n. n. center for an update on the hour's top stories
catherine
thank you frank
and we begin with whitewater
in about one hour president clinton is scheduled to begin testifying on videotape as a defense witness in the arkansas whitewater trial
and c. n. n. correspondent bob franken is joining us now live from the white house with the latest on that
he's very close to testifying isn't he bob
yes indeed
what he's been doing so far today is trying to look like he's having a normal day as normal a day as a president can have
so he went jogging this morning with everybody realizing of course he'll be spending several hours sitting down giving testimony in the whitewater trial
the president is not a defendant in the whitewater trial in little rock
rather he is testifying on behalf of the defense testifying at the behest of the defense the defense meaning jim and susan mcdougal two of his co defendants the third one being the current arkansas governor jim guy tucker
the mcdougals are here
they're the former whitewater partners of the clintons and they are here
they'll be seeking testimony about the president's answer to charges by david hale david hale the main accuser in the whitewater trial also one who says that the president had pressured him as governor ten years ago to make illegal loans to the mcdougals and tucker a charge that the president has repeatedly called bull
there's also one other development today
newsweek is reporting that the billing records that caused hillary rodham clinton to be brought before a washington grand jury billing records that turned up at the white house in a very restricted area those billing records according to newsweek have been found to have mrs. clinton's fingerprints on them
now the white house has said that mrs. clinton said in nineteen ninety two that she might have seen the records
therefore finding the fingerprints is no surprise
and a white house official today also said it is not surprising that this outrageous leak according to the official was found at a time when independent counsel kenneth starr is being criticized it goes on to say that his confidence is eroding because of his partisan activities
so you can see there's a real war going on the whitewater matter
that war goes to the map room in the white house as the president testifies today the map room somewhat appropriate because that is an area that military people in world war two used to review operations in world war two
so the war as i said goes to that room
catherine
all right thank you bob franken
israeli prime minister shimon peres is having lunch today with defense secretary william perry after being honored at a pentagon ceremony
he's in washington for military talks
peres says the u. s. brokered truce with hezbollah forces in lebanon is holding
the next step according to mr. peres should be renewed negotiations with the palestinians
and now the latest on another major story that we are following
at least thirty three people have been killed by a lone gunman in the historic tasmanian resort town of port arthur
on the line with us now from tasmania is journalist trevor sutton
trevor what can you tell us
what's the situation now
i understand there are hostages
yes there are still three hostages as far as we can tell but it's the wee small hours
it's two o'clock a. m. here
that's australian eastern time
and things are going very quietly at the present time
there were some shots fired just after midnight but it's been all quiet since then
what has been the reaction there of residents
this is very unusual for this area isn't it
well it is
it's a very peaceful community
you couldn't get a more peaceful community than tasmania
but we've just had a message from her majesty the queen queen elizabeth
she sent a message saying that she's deeply shocked to learn of the devastating tragedy of port arthur
she says that prince philip joins her in sending our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved families and our thoughts and prayers are with you
we've had also a message from the prime minister of australia as well
and everyone's just in a state of shock here
no one can really understand what's happened and how it's happened
and could you tell us a little bit more about the negotiations there and how many police officers are involved in this
well we did have a report of two hundred police officers involved
that's been upgraded now to between two hundred fifty and three hundred and we have more police officers coming in special marksmen that's the special weapons officers
they're coming in from new south wales and victoria overnight
and i think the situation could go on for quite some hours yet
any idea who the gunman is
well they say that he's an intellectually disabled young man in his early twenties
they won't give us any more detail than that
but they do say that he has a very high powered weapon an automatic weapon
it apparently has a special site that can shoot at night very easily and it's a very dangerous weapon
so that's why they're taking everything very close to their heart so that nothing will happen that will jeopardize the operation
all right trevor sutton from tasmania thank you very much for joining us
and that's it from atlanta
i'm catherine callaway
let's go back to washington and frank sesno with c. n. n. late edition
frank
thanks catherine
well we're talking politics today
and who better to talk politics with than the two party bosses
joining us now from jackson mississippi haley barbour
he's chairman of the republican national committee
hello to you mr. barbour
hey frank how are you doing
good day
and here in washington connecticut senator christopher dodd chairman of the democratic national committee
well gentlemen we just heard a moment ago from bob franken that within the next hour or so president clinton is to give his taped testimony regarding whitewater
plenty of questions remain
and there's still a sense that the white house is not forthcoming on all this
senator dodd you've seen the polls that suggest that most americans think that the clintons are not telling the whole truth maybe outright lying
the white house is going to sit on the tape and try not to release this tape that the president is taping today as part of this testimony
is that good politics
well first of all there's not a lot more to come out here
we've had now
no but he's testifying
well this is a trial involving a case in arkansas in which mr. hale is one of the principal witnesses in a conflict of testimony
but the point one want to make here is that we've now spent thirty million dollars of the taxpayers' money on whitewater
we've gone on with the longest hearings in the history of the united states congress one hundred nine witnesses fifty days of hearings on this waco and ruby ridge by the way nothing on medicare medicaid education by the way
well we're talking whitewater just now
well i know but just to make the point
this is a political game going on in washington with this issue which is what i think needs to be emphasized here
these hearings should have ended in february
they're now going to go on until june
and frankly every survey i've seen the people are sick of it
they'd rather have washington pay attention to their issues
i want to hear from mr. barbour in just a moment but let me come back to the question and that is whether this taped testimony that the president is doing today given the fact that people seem to think based on what they've seen heard and watched that the clintons are hiding something wouldn't it be better just to release that taped testimony once it hits the court and be done with it
well it would be if you were a t. v. network
it's not as if his words are going to be denied
but the fact of the matter is that we'll end up watching those in thirty second spots all fall during the campaign
it would be allowed to tape it in the courtroom where you're going to appear in person
and so that's a distinction that i think needs to be made here
all right haley barbour that's the question then
would you the republican party forswear using the taped testimony if it were released in thirty second spots in the fall
no we wouldn't
the fact of the matter though is the reason this has all gone on so long is repeatedly the clinton white house and the administration has refused to turn over subpoenaed documents
they refused to turn over documents that were subpoenaed when the democrats controlled congress
and frank let's don't you know chris calls this a political affair
the democratically controlled congress was the one that decided this had to be investigated
now look bill clinton and mrs. clinton and everybody else deserves the same right as any other american to be presumed innocent
and so i give them that right
but i will say by all the things that they never released by all the things they find two years later whatever it is they deserve the right to be presumed innocent
but they're the guiltiest looking bunch of people i've ever seen
how much do you intend or do you anticipate that whitewater and the related questions it raises will be used by the republicans by bob dole in the campaign against the clintons this fall
i don't expect i don't know that it'll be an issue at all
now it depends on what comes out here
but today i don't anticipate that any of this will be an issue unless there is unless it comes out that the clintons are in fact not telling the truth and that they are in fact guilty of the kinds of things that they often look like
but i don't in our planning we don't anticipate it'll be an issue
senator dodd
we want this campaign to be on issues like crime and welfare
hey wait a second
why don't we explain the memorandum then that goes to all house full and subcommittee chairmen from bob walker and jim nussle to house republican leaders saying see what you can find here on examples of dishonesty ethical lapses in the clinton administration this went out the date on this is april twenty third
well chris i'll be glad to explain that
no let me just finish the point here
okay
the point is this is what we're up to
this is what this campaign is going to be about
for god's sakes don't talk about the real issues people care about
let's talk about digging up garbage if we can that's the point i'm making
well let haley barbour
that's why the tape that's why this tape
you don't want to tape this
i mean with all due respect and i appreciate haley's candor on this of course they'd use it
and that's how the campaign how they want to run it
that's the problem today
the president wants to keep this on issues and they want to get down into the dirt
you know the fact of the matter is that the democrats wanted to have this taken out of this deposition taken out of public view and done on videotape so president clinton wouldn't have to testify in public
well that's fine
but let's talk about why there is a tape
it's so he wouldn't have to testify in public
what did bob walker say
bob walker in that memo said we have time and time again seen this administration use political activity use the administration for political activity the administration's ambassador to the vatican has been called down for sending out political material to the catholic church in the united states
we've seen s. b. a. promoting openly promoting and called down for politicizing every issue that comes along
today the medicare the people that run medicare for the administration are refusing to come forward in a timely basis with the annual medicare report because it's going to show that medicare's going to be bankrupt in five years and that this administration bill clinton specifically has done everything he could to make medicare a political issue
and if it means medicare goes bankrupt
haley you made it
in five years who cares
the republicans made it a political issue when you wanted to cut two hundred seventy billion dollars
you made it an issue because people don't want that kind of a cut in order to pay for a tax cut
gentlemen let me
well wait a minute frank
let me just jump in
frank let's get the facts on the table
you created your own situation when you did that
that's not our fault
that's your fault
chris says republicans
and then you put out a memo like this when you suggest the chairman ought to try to dig up dirt go out and see if he could find any ethical lapses here
that's a federally elected office holder
a chairman of a committee in congress
it wouldn't take two minutes
is going to spend taxpayer money to go out and dig up dirt on a candidate
it wouldn't take two minutes to find ethical lapses in this administration
that's bad politics and we ought to put a stop to it
let me
frank
let me jump in here if i may
but frank in fairness to me well wait a minute
in fairness to me chris dodd said something patently untrue
he said republicans wanted to cut medicare two hundred seventy billion dollars cut medicare cut medicare cut medicare
he knows as well as you do the republican budget bill clinton vetoed increased medicare spending seven percent a year increased medicare spending
okay gentlemen let me
we could at least talk about this on a factual basis
we will do that and i will come back to that
and senator dodd for the record what mr. barbour is saying i think is what most in washington recognize and that is what the republicans were talking about was cutting the growth of medicare
whether you want to
well you can describe it
whether you want to talk about whether it's cutting services or not as a result of that cut in growth is a separate subject
well we'll come back to that subject
but i'll tell you most people don't like it
let me jump in here with a piece of tape i'd like you both to see and listen to which is hillary clinton speaking just the other day on this very topic of the tone and tenor of the campaign she says is to come
that in the next months what will occur in desperation by those on the other side is a relentless attack of negative advertising
it will be both fulling the airwaves and below the surface of the radar screen where there'll be lots of those telephone operations we read about in the republican primary where people are called and basically given information that slanders opponents
haley barbour let me let you respond to that
it's the same sort of thing that senator dodd was saying just a moment ago but this time coming from the first lady
to what extent is this campaign do you think going to be going after the comparative issues you call them the negative issues others call them
and here's a question for you specifically is the first lady herself a legitimate target as far as you're concerned
i never have been in a campaign where i thought the candidate's spouse was much of an issue
she was targeted last time
but i will say that there's never been a spouse of a president that exercised that kind of policy authority
and i can tell you the clintons' proposal for the government to take over the health care system will be an issue
but i don't think it's because mrs. clinton dictated that
i think it's because of the policy bill clinton proposed
as far as negative advertising since august of last year the labor unions have spent thirty five million dollars frank on negative advertising attacking republican members of congress by name untruthfully saying things like what chris said cut medicare when it's not true in an effort to deceive and frighten people
they've spent over thirty five million dollars already and not a penny of it in voluntary contributions
every penny that they spent came from compulsory union dues that union members were forced to pay including the forty percent of union members who in nineteen ninety four voted for the republicans
senator dodd are you going to
i think that sets the tone for this campaign
are you going to talk to will you talk to the unions and appeal to the unions in the same way that you just appealed to your colleague from across the aisle to not do negative ads
because you know that some of the ads they've already rolled out have been pretty negative
first of all any union that required compulsory would go to jail
i mean talk about getting the story straight
haley knows
well but let's talk about the substance of what they're going to put on the air
he uses the word compulsory all the time and it's not compulsory
that's in violation of federal law
and that language has to stop
that's number one
number two
but they're taking fifteen cents from every member
well they cannot require it under the law
they just admitted that they raised the union dues
you cannot require it under the law to do that
all right well let's
oh come on
and that's very important to say that
and secondly secondly this is independent organizations
i mean if they'll go ahead and get the n. r. a. and the christian coalition and a variety of other groups to also pull their negative ads then maybe we can start to talk
but the fact of the matter is that we've seen it over and over again
remember it was the republican party with the willie horton ads that go back
they've got a long history of engaging get off the track don't talk about the real issues people care about
let's see if we can't get down in the dirt
here again what better piece of information can you have
this isn't some outside group
this is a memo now from members of congress chairmen of committee dig up dirt
the democrats have done that too
you don't have memos you won't see a memo like this
you had cameras deployed during the primary campaigns to see how lamar alexander and other folks were doing there too
that's
you both do it don't you
listen
clearly we try and find where people make misstatements and so forth and contradictions
certainly when bob dole gets up and says how proud he was of the fact that he was one of twelve to vote against medicare in nineteen sixty five and newt gingrich says we're going to let it wither on the vine yes we're going to use that
all right gentlemen we're going to take a quick break
when we come back some of the issues some more of the politics
and among our questions is it time to repeal a gasoline tax
after this
we are going through a republican period of being in a funk
the weekly standard came out and said oh bob dole's going to lose so badly
how will we keep control of the congress i assume that was frankly an editorial mistake and they meant for that to be the satire page on the back of the magazine
satire or otherwise
welcome back to late edition speaking with the chairmen of the democratic and republican parties
haley barbour you heard newt gingrich say we're going through a republican period of being in a funk how do you get the party out of its funk
well first recognize that we've had a four five month long open nomination contest where all the media coverage has been on what republicans disagree on
okay but look ahead
that's been
look ahead and address how you get the party out of its funk as you move ahead
well we begin to spend money and to focus on the issues
we talked about labor having spent thirty five million dollars of compulsory union dues regardless of what anybody says to attack republicans on positions
while our primaries were going on we weren't in a good position to talk about what we were for
for the next few months you're going to see republicans talking about crime talking about drugs talking about taxes talking about pushing power and money away from washington back to people
you're going to see us talking about the issues that matter to people and that those issues like welfare reform not only are republicans right but in every case bill clinton said the right thing did the wrong thing vetoed genuine welfare reform vetoed tax cuts for the middle class
and now we're looking at gasoline taxes over two dollars in california
and you remember bill clinton's tax cut against the rich
we'll come back to
would raise the gasoline tax twenty three billion dollars
we'll come back to that in a minute but i would like to stay on this line with you for just a moment because there are many republicans i've spoken to who say frankly one of their fears is that one reason for the funk is their candidate bob dole
and you've got questions being raised by the likes of bill kristol and bill bennett heavyweights within the republican party for dole to get in the game
today g. o. p. strategist ed rollins weighed in
a quick piece of tape just take a look at this
he has to go out and make speeches to the country and rally his own troops
the democrats are not killing us today
we are killing ourselves by a lack of enthusiasm
what do you say to that haley barbour
well i think now is the period when we switch from having had a nomination contest and between now and the convention republicans need to and will put in front of the american people what this campaign is about
it's about taxes that we have the highest rate of taxes in the history of the united states today
republicans tried to cut taxes passed a tax cut clinton vetoed it
welfare reform
we're talking about bob dole the candidate here
bob dole led you've got to remember frank bob dole led this congress to pass the first balanced budget in twenty six years
bob dole led this congress to pass tax cuts for working families for economic growth
bob dole led this congress to pass genuine welfare reform
not once but twice bob dole led this congress to pass legislation like the anti terrorism legislation that we included habeas corpus reform and we can make the death penalty a real thing after clinton had vetoed it once before
okay let's talk
bob dole got the job done
bill clinton stopped it all at his desk
you're ticking through several of your issues and i do and we will come back to the issues i promise
but i want to ask you point blank about bob dole the candidate
in a new york times profile on you today haley barbour you're quoted as saying the answer is not to go out and whine in public about bob dole
the answer is to do something about it now specifically what does the party do
frank look the american people don't want to hire a president to be a talk show host
they want bill clinton is a tremendous performer
he can express a vision better than anybody
the problem is he'll express just exactly the opposite vision the next day with equal sincerity and verve
bob dole is like most americans
he's not very comfortable tooting his own horn
he's not very comfortable
so that's what the party does they have to
pretending to wipe away phony tears or to wear his heart on his sleeve
but i'll tell you what
the american people know that when bob dole tells you something it's going to happen
and they know that he's not going to tell the next group tomorrow just the opposite because that's what he thinks they want to hear
all right let's come to some of the issues that we were talking about and we will talk about
haley barbour you raised the issue of the gasoline tax
i want to just respond to this a bit for a second
you know it reminds me of what the democrats used to say about ronald reagan
i've got to tell you here complaining about this
complaining about the great communicator
well yeah absolutely
i mean this is a president who reaches and talks to the american people
he's come back because he's focusing on the questions people worry about the most
he's
are you licking are you democrats licking your chops at a guy like bob dole who is not a talk show host as haley barbour says
no let me first of all haley and i both know this
look whatever else gets said this is april
we've got twenty seven twenty eight weeks to go
we used to say twenty four hours is a lifetime
an hour is a lifetime in politics
so we've got lots of life left
so while i'm enjoying the moment allow me to enjoy this moment
i'll also tell you very quickly that we've got a long way to go and a lot can happen
and we're not taking anything for granted
believe me when i tell you that
i want us to tick through some of these issues now because they're very important
and this ultimately should be what this campaign i think most would agree revolves around
the gasoline tax
amen
haley barbour just raised the issue of the gasoline tax
president clinton admitted at one point that he was sorry he raised taxes so much on people
well here's an opportunity
gasoline has gone up because of market for market reasons one dollar and fifty cents more in some places in the country
he put the gasoline tax up or fought for it four point three cents a gallon
does he support a repeal of that now
well first of all he said he was when he talked about the context no one's happy about raising taxes
but asking that taxes be raised for the top one percent of income earners and allowing forty million people to get a tax cut is actually what happened
when you went after medicare earlier let's be honest about what occurred that's number one
number two bob dole voted for the last three tax increases in gasoline over the last ten or twelve years
he didn't vote for the last one though
well the point is for all of a sudden to get religion here twenty eight weeks on a gasoline tax is a little disingenuous
number two
wait a minute
let me finish the point
number two you create a five billion dollar hole in your deficit
now deficit reduction is still supposed to be part of the game
if they want to cut the gasoline taxes tell me how they're going to make it up with a cut in medicare
more
all right let's ask the question
are they going to go after student loans or whatever
and this ought to be the part of the context of a budget discussion
the president invited bob dole to come down one on one the two of them alone in a room no one else to try and put this seven year balanced budget agreement together
what's the answer
let's go out and have a tax cut in gasoline why not come down and sit down with the president as he has invited him to
a rare occasion to give a challenger the opportunity to sit one on one with the president and resolve this budget deficit problem
haley barbour
well first let me say about the gasoline tax this clinton gasoline tax is the first time in history we have raised the gasoline tax and then not dedicated all the revenue to transportation
dole and anybody else like you chris who had voted for gasoline tax increases in the past it's always been as a user fee so we'd have better highways better mass transit
the clinton gas tax the first time we raised the gas tax but then didn't dedicate the money to transportation
that's very important
about this budget look last year bill clinton introduced three budgets
the republicans brought those three budgets to the floor of the congress and three times not a single democrat voted for any of bill clinton's budgets
his new budget doesn't balance
the budget office has just in hearings announced it doesn't balance
we have bent over backwards to work with president clinton
we were able to get sixty three billion dollars less spending last year and this year because of our work
but for bill clinton to talk about come on let's have some honest negotiations' after what we went through november december and january when it was all a political charade
haley barbour
we're not going to waste the people's time
haley barbour chris dodd today we're reading that the republicans will prepare another balanced budget proposal six hundred billion dollars shaved from spending to bring the budget into balance by the year two thousand two but with no expectation that this is going to go anywhere in the words of one basically to embarrass the president politically
the president meanwhile is at the white house calling for budget negotiations with many democrats saying this isn't going to go anywhere but it's a great way to position against the republicans
well let me say
why shouldn't americans throw their hands up and say more politics as usual
number
well look first of all let me tell you i sit with this president when there's no one else in the room
and i will tell you flat out he cares very much about continuing what he started here thirty eight months ago four consecutive years now of reducing the deficit
he understands he's the president of the united states and he wants to lead and the people care about this issue
so he's prepared to make deep concessions
yeah because bob dole
is he prepared to make concessions
he has and he will continue bob dole said look i don't want a meeting with a lot of people in the room
how about just you and i meeting the president said fine
haley barbour
when chris was talking i was thinking about your question
your question was are republicans going to put forward a balanced budget for political purposes the answer is no
we're going to put forward a balanced budget that we think is right
bill clinton's not going to agree to a balanced budget just like he's not going to agree to welfare reform
so what we can do we can put forward even though clinton will never let it become law here is how we would balance the budget
and included will be tax relief for middle class americans
okay gentlemen i've got to jump in
the same tax relief clinton vetoed before
we've got to take a break
we'll pick this up when we come back plus phone calls for our guests
sorry to interrupt haley barbour
we'll pick back up with you when we return after this
welcome back to late edition
time to go straight to the phones for our guests the two party chairmen
our first call from los osos california
go ahead please with your question
good morning gentlemen
senator dodd democrats claim to care about working people
working people own automobiles that are ten years or older and are less fuel efficient
if you want to help average people drop the minimum wage issue and repeal the federal gas tax that is currently eighteen cents per gallon
okay thank you
well i'd just say the minimum wage issue is eighty four percent of the american public think in fairness it ought to be increased
a group of now republicans have come along and said so as well
bob dole refuses to allow us to have a vote on the issue in the senate even half an hour of debate on it
he voted for the last one that went up
and frankly that's the kind of an issue that and the health care package
but what about the caller's point that if you want to help working folks
well this is and this is we have
the president clinton had the forty million people in this country got a tax cut
he's the one who said we ought to get to a balanced budget move in that direction
it was the chairman one of the leading republicans yesterday who said we're not going to do that because the issue is too important to us politically so
but no not yet on a gas tax
well no i wouldn't say that
i think the context is in the context of the budget agreement
look you can't just go off on these things and just say we're just going to do this how do you do it in the context
do you cut medicare
do you cut education
how do you pay for it
all right next call
there's too much of that
next call next question from london england
go ahead please with your question
good afternoon gentlemen
my question is to both party chairmen
from a point of view of electability of candidates does the budget deficit and the size of it really matter
haley barbour go ahead
well the answer is yes
i mean americans know that we've mortgaged away our children's future and if we don't watch out we'll even mortgage away our grandchildren's future
interest rates are much higher today than they otherwise would be
frank i would like to have a shot at that minimum wage question though
if you could do it briefly because we're running out of time and i'd like to cover a little more ground here and get some more questions in
go ahead
well i was just going to say we think president clinton was right two years ago when he said raising the minimum wage is not the way to help the lowest earners
we want more take home pay for everybody
that's why we want the unions not to be able to force people to pay dues to use for politics
that's why we want the five hundred dollar per child tax credit
and that's why instead of raising the minimum wage which the last time we did it we saw employment among minority teenagers go down fifteen percent we want to help the lowest end with the earned income tax credit or some other way that does not cause hundreds of thousands of jobs to be lost which is what would happen if you did what they want now
okay let me jump back in here haley barbour and ask you a piece of news that the chicago tribune is reporting today and ask you to confirm this and that is that henry hyde who obviously is very much among many other things opposed to abortion will be named the chairman of the republican national convention platform committee
confirm it
well when there's an announcement to be made frank i'll be the first to announce it
deny it
i will deny that we have announced who the chairman of the platform committee is going to be
that's a good answer
what do you think about that chris
that's a good answer haley
not much of
i knew there was one thing we could agree on chris
well done haley
let's go back to the phones for just a moment here while we've got a few moments left to londonderry new hampshire
go ahead with your call and question please
yes good morning gentlemen
i have a problem with the concept of as mr. dodd said dirty tricks
if you're going to talk about dirty tricks you've got to look at the stuff like the liquor store document and the hit squad for newt
and for haley you've got to start dealing with the attacks as they come
you can't be backing off
you can't let them get away with what they're doing
we're going to have to deal with the issues
i think that
but we also have to deal with
i think we ought to this ought to be an honesty in labeling question here
that sounds more like a comment than a question
any comments from either of you
well let me just let me go back because
very very quickly
well because the president back when we were dealing with health care we were dealing with e. i. t. c. which by the way they've tried to cut to death as well
the earned income tax credit
that's right
then the minimum wage was thus important
now because it is important to people a sense of fairness we're pushing for it
just give us a vote on it
okay let me get both of you very quickly in less than a minute left predictions
you said twenty four hours is a lifetime in politics
you've got several lifetimes before you
the congress what happens
well i think you'd have to say today and i'd be interested if haley would agree i think there's a very good chance democrats could regain control of both houses
now that's far from certain
but a few months ago it was totally you wouldn't call for that at all
it was totally unlikely
today there's a fifty to fifty chance that could happen
haley barbour
well i think in november we'll have a fifty to fifty election for president
i think it'll probably boil down to a handful of big industrial states california new jersey ohio michigan illinois maybe missouri connecticut chris's home state of connecticut
but today
that puts a picture on it
clearly clinton's ahead
i mean they've spent millions and millions particularly the unions
we've had a nomination contest
as far as the house and senate's concerned in a fifty to fifty election for president we will increase our majorities in both the house and senate and among governors
if the election were held today i think chris is right
the democrats today if we had a snap election would have a chance
i don't think they'd prevail but they'd have a chance
a chance at retaking both houses
if the election were a snap election today
i think in november as i say it'll be a fifty to fifty election and we'll increase our majorities
the good news for us republicans the election is not may the fifth
it's november the fifth
okay gentlemen much to go much to pursue and much to discuss between now and then
thank you both very much for your forthcoming responses and your time today here on late edition
chris dodd and haley barbour appreciate your time
well just ahead on late edition the president testifies on whitewater today as we mentioned
the stakes when we come back with our panel of journalists as we go round the table next
welcome back to late edition
as we've already mentioned this morning the president testifies today perhaps very shortly at the white house as a defense witness in the whitewater trial of judge david hale
we'll talk about that and other events of the week as we go round the table now with our panel of journalists susan page white house correspondent for u. s. a. today jeffrey birnbaum political correspondent for time magazine and paul gigot political columnist for the wall street journal
paul how much damage does this whole whitewater thing really do
we heard haley barbour say oh we're not going to use this but it does plug into this larger question that hovers on character
it is
it's the background of the character problem in a sense
it underpins everything the republicans want to do when they make the case about his double vision his not telling the truth
and in this case in particular while he is a defense witness he is also the centerpiece of the defense case
if the jury believes him then mr. starr probably does not get his convictions
i'm sorry i did misspeak a moment ago
it's the tucker mcdougal case not the hale case
hale has been involved obviously in the testimony
go ahead
you know obviously it's not good news when the president's being sworn to tell the truth and testifying in a trial
on the other hand these are charges that were around in ninety two
people knew about them
people elected him anyway
there may be a sense in which they've been largely discounted
people have figured out what they think about him
and i don't know that it's got the kind of potency that the republicans think it may have this time around
well if there is a chance for bob dole i think to catch up to clinton it will be in part on the issues that are raised by whitewater the character ones
dole is ahead in all the polls on integrity and trustworthiness and that's really where whitewater cuts
and if you know this ends up to be something more and these tapes are made public i expect probably they will in some form i think it's an advantage for dole
i had a conversation paul with a leading republican strategist the other day who said you know this whole question of character and does clinton keep his word is he credible can be tied to many other things and we intend to do that such as for example the whole bosnia arms thing that this becomes the theme for tying together lots of issues where clinton's inconsistencies are up for grabs
well i think that's absolutely what they plan to do
it's a way of tying his character to the fact that he often says one thing and does another
on the bosnian arms deal for example he was saying he was opposed to arming the bosnian muslims
on the other hand he was relying on iran to do it with
but the hypocrisy goes both ways here
i mean you can say there's hypocrisy on bill clinton's part in the action
but on the other hand bob dole was at that time urging the united states to allow arms to go to the bosnian muslims and now he's going to investigate bill clinton for letting him do that
but there's a big difference
he wanted the saudis and the turks who are muslims who are moderate to do it not to bring in precisely because he didn't want the iranians to get a beachhold into europe
there's a big important point there
but let me say though that there was a great deal of reporting at the time some of it here on c. n. n.
it was well known that the iranians were part of this arms pipeline
that's right
on the other hand to the extent that clinton can make himself involved in foreign affairs of any kind representing us abroad i think that helps his credibility and undercuts this domestic problem with whitewater and other things
how does the budget play in all of this
john kasich is out this week along with other republicans spinning it that this whole budget battle up to now has been a victory for the republicans
here's what he had to say
they wanted to spend billions more and we got the largest amount of downsizing of the washington bureaucracy and washington spending since world war two
it is a clear victory for the republicans
clear victory for the republicans paul gigot
but you won't let them celebrate because you had a column in the wall street journal on friday and i will quote from your column
you said for nearly two years you wrote house republicans have set washington's political agenda
but their budget defeat has left them dazed and surprisingly unsure of themselves you call it a defeat
kasich calls it a victory
well i didn't when i said budget defeat i was referring more back to the president's knocking them back on their heels with his vetoes in december and january
i think this is actually an incremental step forward here for the republicans
it is not everything they wanted there's no question about that
but on the other hand this is not the budget that the democrats in congress would have wanted
whenever you cut spending you're talking about you are on republican turf
i'm not sure that either side should say it's a big victory seven months into the fiscal year to finally manage to pass a budget
but it seems to me the republicans decided to do what senator aiken proposed we do during the vietnam war which is they decided this is not working
let's just declare victory get it over with and go on to the next thing
i think they waited probably too long to take aiken's advice
and as a result what could have been a republican victory clearly in political terms was a clinton victory and a democratic victory
and rightfully said what should have been a republican victory because the republicans did succeed in fundamentally changing the terms of the debate and getting the white house to sign on to a balanced budget by a date certain
i think that they didn't change the government though as much as they had anticipated
you remember they were talking about pulling programs by the root
and instead what they've settled for is kind of chopping them off at the top branches
right
and a lot of the
it's spring time for a little hedge clipping
and if and those changes while important in terms of changing the direction are not permanent so that if democrats should regain control of the congress it can lead to growth
okay quick break
jeffrey we'll come back
you can pick up your point
one more trip round the table after this
and welcome back to our final few minutes around the table
jeffrey birnbaum turnabout is fair play and it seems to me that's what's happening in washington right now
we now have the republicans talking about the clinton crunch that wages aren't going up and workers are falling behind
and you had clinton coming out last week the white house with their downsizing report saying well downsizing hasn't been that bad after all
the economy's in pretty good shape is it the economy stupid or just that stupid economy
well it seems like both sides want to have it both ways all the time
the double vision i think both sides are using to the best they can
i think basically the economy is doing well and that is good for clinton but not good enough for him to persuade voters to vote for him for a second term
i'm not sure there are a lot of voters who wouldn't agree that the economy is doing so well
you know the economic numbers look so good but why do people feel so bad
why do people feel so uncertain about the future their own jobs or more importantly the futures that their children are going to face as they
paul as you know from watching polls this right track wrong track question nearly sixty percent think the country is on the wrong track
it tends to reflect the wallet
it's partly economics but it also is a sense of social values and the sense of people being out of control and responsibility
the republicans created this opening though on the minimum wage for bill clinton because they weren't talking enough about the economy
they created a vacuum in which the democrats could drive through and argue both cases that it's the best economy in thirty years and bad enough that we need to you know raise wages even at the risk of costing some jobs
does this new talk about a repeal of the gasoline tax become the republicans' minimum wage
they're trying to change the subject to taxes clearly
and they think they're on stronger ground by talking about cutting taxes
at the same time though on the other side we've been having lots of hands here of course
they also want deficit reduction
i think they're going to run themselves right into the same contradiction that they had before that lost them the budget debate to begin with
because if they start talking about deficit reduction but also big tax cuts then you get right back into the medicare issue which has proved so damaging for the republicans
if bob dole does not come out with a tax cut plan of his own he loses the election
is the
they have to talk about the economy
he has to talk about taxes
if he doesn't talk about it
yeah absolutely
but does that necessarily mean tax cuts
oh it absolutely does because without it you don't have the fiscal stimulus you need to get the economy moving
you throw it over to the federal reserve and they can't handle it
i think a lot of this deficit talk budget talk tax cuts doesn't really work for either side
and that's why the republicans are probably losing a bit by not stepping up to the plate with bill clinton and saying we want a big deficit reduction zero balanced budget agreement too
jeffrey when taxes have been an issue
and i think clinton is grabbing that issue from the republicans and the republicans should not give it away
when taxes have been an issue eighty eighty four eighty eight and christy whitman in new jersey it helps republicans
okay paul gigot susan page and jeffrey birnbaum a pleasure as always
bruce morton and the last word still ahead
it was the chance to purchase a part of the past
bruce morton explores the never ending mystique of camelot
the last word just ahead
the last word
the legend never dies they say
bruce morton now and the last word
today a final thought about camelot
april is the cruelest month the poet t. s. eliot wrote mixing memory and desire
that's what they were doing at sotheby's this past week mixing memory of things that never were with the desire that somehow they could be that way again
souvenirs of camelot the half million dollar humidor the four hundred thousand dollars rocking chair the one and a half million dollar desk and so on
we're buying history they say
we're buying nostalgia but camelot is of course a place that never was
in john kennedy's america the cold war raged
racial segregation was legal in the south
and only some americans admired their young president
we have forgotten that
but wasn't it different then really
yes in some ways
the president's private life was private
if he chased pretty women maybe reporters knew it but they didn't write it
when the president asked the washington post not to report on the upcoming bay of pigs invasion it didn't
it wasn't camelot but it was a time when americans trusted government more than they do now when we mostly thought that our presidents were at least trying to do good
real suspicion of government came later after government after presidents of both parties lied seriously to their people about vietnam and watergate
so maybe what we were buying at sotheby's this week was not a memory of things but a memory of a more innocent and trusting time and a time too when americans really thought things would keep getting better really thought there was nothing we couldn't do
we'd go to the moon president kennedy explained not because it was easy but because it wasn't
so there we were anyway looking for something this week
at the end of the musical richard burton sang once there was a fleeting wisp of glory called camelot there wasn't of course but oh how we wish there had been and how much we want to remember it that way
i'm bruce morton
and that is it for this late edition
today and later today on reliable sources the media obsession with the jacqueline kennedy onassis auction six thirty p. m. eastern time
then at seven o'clock capital gang sunday asks if peace is possible in the middle east
and at seven thirty crossfire sunday has the debate over whether the president's whitewater testimony should be made public seven thirty p. m. eastern time
for now from all of us at late edition thanks very much for watching
i'm frank sesno in washington
enjoy what's left of your weekend
in a land like china where the pressure to conform is intense it's a rare individual who can stand up to that pressure both professionally and personally
a profile is the exception to the rule from c. n. n.'s andrea koppel in beijing
iquot is at times a reflection of real life in the beijing modern dance ensemble and its founder twenty nine year old gin shay are as natural a combination as yin and yang
modern dance is a late comer to china and gin shay a late bloomer to her sexuality
when i was a man when i was a boy whatever
i didn't hate myself
until one year ago gin shay had been among china's best male dancers whose career onstage began in the mid seventies when at age nine he was selected to dance in a military ballet troupe
and although as a grown man who lived and studied modern dance in the united states and europe he enjoyed homosexual relationships
gin shay says something was always missing
of course i loved my friends but they would be saying to me you are too much like a girl then i said maybe then also the men i'm interested in not as really gay men always was whatever bisexual or heterosexual men
that's why i got more knowledge i can get operation to be a woman
the second of her two sex change operations lasted sixteen hours and nearly cost gin shay the use of her legs
whereas in western countries these operations are nothing new chinese doctors have had little experience with transsexuals
traditional chinese society has had even less experience dealing with let alone accepting them
most of them change their name and move to new places start their life again i think but i think i cannot from my twenty eight year career dancing i'm not going to do that it's too much
and i have to come back to my society
i just change my identity card i just changed my gender from male to female
the name is the same gin shay
after months of recuperation and rehabilitation late last year gin shay made her debut performance dancing to her choreography in her own modern dance company as a woman
sometimes i'm hard to express my feeling
i have to dance
i don't know one word in chinese we say
something you can just understand
i have lots of people knowing me see me come dance
a dancer
dance
o. k. she's a woman but she's a different woman
do you feel pretty
i think so
i think so
anyway i think i'm fine
and finally happy
andrea koppel c. n. n. beijing
president clinton is immersed in the whitewater affair again this time as a witness for the defense in the trial of his former whitewater business partners and arkansas governor jim guy tucker
c. n. n.'s bob franken joins us now from the white house where the president has been testifying behind closed doors
bob what's the latest
well the latest martin is that he's finished testifying
within the half hour they finished their videotaped testimony of president clinton
just a short while ago we saw some of the principals leave
they had been in there we figured it out four hours and twenty six minutes videotaping testimony of president clinton that will be used in the whitewater trial in little rock
he was called upon to refute charges by david hale who was the main accuser in the whitewater trial and also the main accuser of president clinton
he's charged that as governor clinton ten years ago the president now pressured hale to make some of the illegal loans that are at issue here
the president of course has characterized hale's charges as a bunch of bull and although we don't have details of what went on inside we can expect that he said once again that hale had lied
now as i said we don't yet what would happen inside
as a matter of fact the judge has ruled that the proceedings here today are to be kept strictly secret until the videotape is played before the grand jury
we don't know when that will be
it could be the week after next
it's up to the defense attorneys to try and decide
meanwhile of course there are going to be a lot of efforts to try and penetrate the secrecy
as for the videotape the latest word on that is after it is played to the jury it would be sealed because the white house is worried that republicans would use it for opposition commercials during the presidential campaign
now the president tried to have a look of normalcy today
he left the white house this morning first for a jog and then he and the clinton family went to church
it is after he came back from church that he went behind the closed doors for the videotaped testimony here
we see the president leaving the church
he went back and then he went in for his videotaped testimony
now as for mrs. clinton newsweek reports this week that her fingerprints have shown up on the rose law firm billing records that were discovered at the white house in january
it was in late january that mrs. clinton appeared before a grand jury to answer questions about that
now newsweek says her fingerprints have been found on the documents
however the white house points out that it was a possibility they've acknowledged before that she saw the documents in nineteen ninety two so her lawyer says it's not surprising and as a matter of fact they called the leak of these documents outrageous
but the big news here today was the testimony by president clinton on videotape
it has just concluded and we'll have more details later
martin
bob what is the potential political impact for the president on this whole videotaped session
well if the republicans have their way there is a good possibility these could show up in some commercials
as a matter of fact on late edition with frank sesno the republican national chairman haley barbour would not rule out the fact that some of these could appear in a commercial
now the white house says it wants to try and avoid that and thus far has been successful in convincing the judge that that should be avoided
that of course has not yet been completely litigated
all right
c. n. n.'s bob franken at the white house live
thank you
a former green beret colonel is trying again to end the thirty five day standoff between federal authorities and anti government freemen in montana
c. n. n.'s don knapp joins us from brusett montana with a live report
don
jeanne bo gritz and jack mclamb still hard at it still inside that farmhouse you see behind me talking negotiating listening we presume to the freemen in this long long standoff
as we take a closer look at that farm house we can assume that what they are talking about are the issues that stand between the freemen and a peaceful resolution to this thirty five day long standoff
after gritz and mclamb spent seven hours yesterday with the freemen gritz said he felt that the gaps were bridgeable and perhaps that weaver's attorney gerry spence might be acceptable to the freemen
he also noted that perhaps the freemen inside were running a little bit low on food and he spoke about how everybody inside was armed and that arms were at the ready near every door and window in every room
but he stressed that they were non violent
earlier randy weaver told us that gritz's job once he got inside was to convince those inside that an established attorney like gerry spence could work for them and apparently the freemen have already indicated an interest in gerry spence or someone like him who might be able to work within the system to achieve the same kind of success that they saw weaver achieve
the freeman all along have said that they do not like the current establishment of law that they consider themselves disconnected or outside that
they prefer a common law as they call it grand jury to hear their case
now while all the developments were occurring yesterday another freeman came out
this time it was thirty seven year old stewart douglas waterhouse
now waterhouse got into the compound after the march twenty fifth standoff began by running a roadblock and that was one of the charges against him
and he was arrested for that by the f. b. i.
he was also arrested on what is known as a felony intimidation charge for the state of oklahoma
he is now in the yellowstone county jail in billings and we presume that he'll be arraigned sometime early this week
randy weaver meanwhile has not been allowed to go into the farm complex here
those inside have indicated through gritz that they wanted to hear from him
gritz said he wanted to take him in but the f. b. i. apparently has not allowed him to do that
jeanne
don knapp in brusett montana
thanks for joining us
it was a sunday afternoon outing to one of australia's oldest former prisons
colonial port arthur is on the australian island of tasmania
when tourists heard gunfire from afar they thought it might be part of a show until they got closer
john raedler has details of what has become australia's worst massacre this century
helicopters ferried the wounded from the scene of the massacre to nearby hobart eighteen injured survivors now being treated in hospital
but back at the scene an old convict prison called port arthur more than thirty people did not survive the rampage
the area was closed off by police soon after the shooting spree
news media are being kept well away but eyewitnesses returning to hobart told what it was like
it's unbelievable
three or four people dead that were covered up near the buses and one of them was a bus driver
there were all gunshots going off and people were running up the hill screaming
and we didn't think much of it to start off because we thought it must have been part of the show you know
my wife's seven months pregnant and she was in shock and vomiting
witnesses say the gunman drove into the site carried a tennis bag into a cafeteria took a high powered semi automatic rifle from the bag and began shooting
late sunday night the gunman was still holed up in a cottage with what police believe are three hostages
they have spoken to the gunman by phone
he has fired sporadic shots at the police
his name is now known to us
we know his history and background and of course we're still trying to negotiate with him on the telephone
is he mentally ill
possibly intellectually disabled rather than mentally ill
this is not fort arthur's first brush with infamy
it was the site of britain's most inhumane convict prison in australia last century
now it is the site of australia's worst mass murder this century
john raedler for c. n. n. hobart
and now john raedler is on the telephone from tasmania to fill us in with the very latest
john
martin police have revised the death toll down from thirty three to thirty two and they have added one to the injury toll that now going from eighteen to nineteen
now also among the dead police have confirmed there is a three year old girl her six year old sister and those two girls' mother
the gunman is described as a twenty nine year old local man
he is described by police as intellectually disturbed
he continues to hold three hostages
it is now just gone eight o'clock monday morning in tasmania and he has held those three hostages overnight
there have been sporadic bursts of gunfire from the cottage where he's holding those three hostages gunfire as recent as three and a half hours ago
and also martin at this stage police are beginning what they call a line search of the fort arthur historic site area
and that means police shoulder to shoulder are now walking through the area looking for any other people who might be injured any other people who might be dead and were not found overnight
and they'll also be looking for evidence as well to support their case if and when that comes about
john that gunfire you heard do you consider that an ominous sign
well police have originally made telephone contact with the gunman
it appears police tell us that the battery in a cordless phone he was using at the house extinguished and so they have not had telephone contact with him now for about eight hours
i guess the one positive thing if you can say that about the gunfire is at least it shows that the gunman is still there it shows that the gunman at least is still alive
police do concede that they have had no confirmation of the status of the three hostages for many many hours now
so it is assumed they are alive but that is not definite
at this stage police also say that they have seen the man moving around in the house a man they presume to be the gunman in the early hours of this monday morning in tasmania
all right
c. n. n.'s john raedler as he joins us on the phone from tasmania
we'll be in touch with you
thank you
tonight president clinton is putting aside the whitewater affair and turning his attention to the middle east
he is hosting a late night meeting with israeli prime minister shimon peres who arrived in washington today
c. n. n.'s wolf blitzer joins us from the white house with the latest
wolf
jeanne with the cease fire along the israeli lebanese border holding prime minister peres is now in washington and he's getting some additional u. s. economic and military as well as diplomatic support
amid tight security at a washington hotel and demonstrations by arab american groups against israel's recent bombing campaign in south lebanon president clinton and prime minister peres addressed the annual meeting of the pro israeli lobbying organization a. p. a. c.
the president defended israel's actions in southern lebanon and praised the cease fire agreement
the violence has stopped
there is now a monitoring mechanism to which israel and lebanon can refer complaints
now it is our fond hope that civilians on both sides of the border can resume their lives with greater confidence and security and we will not tolerate further efforts to disrupt the calm
the u. s. brokered cease fire along the israeli lebanese border has encouraged u. s. and israeli officials to believe that israeli syrian negotiations may yet get back on track and prime minister peres vowed to continue that path
before the curtain will fall on this century we shall try first to establish a lasting and comprehensive peace in the entire middle east
once we have achieved peace with syria and lebanon i am convinced that the other arab countries will follow
mr. president i believe that the lawns of the white house can withstand another great occasion
but with israeli elections scheduled for the end of may mr. peres faces a more immediate problem he's fighting for his political survival
he is hoping that his visit here to the united states will bolster his political standing back in israel
and short of directly interfering in domestic israeli politics the clinton administration seems to be doing everything it can to help mr. peres
the prime minister earlier in the day received a very warm welcome at the pentagon and secretary of defense william perry announced steps to bolster israel's security including a new partnership in developing a new anti katyusha rocket defense system called the nautilus more cooperation in developing a broader anti ballistic missile system and new measures in fighting terrorism
later this evening both the president and the prime minister are coming back from that washington hotel here to the white house to start the first round of talks and more talks by the way jeanne are scheduled for tuesday
wolf which portion of the president's speech to a. p. a. c. tonight got the biggest response
he got a very very strong standing ovation when he defended the israeli action in southern lebanon especially when he referred specifically to the bombing of that u. n. facility where a lot of civilian refugees were killed at qana
he said the israeli action was provoked by the hezbollah
he directly blamed the hezbollah for that and he also said the israelis did not deliberately try to do that
in effect he was taking exactly the same position of the israeli government
at one point when prime minister peres spoke about never vowing to give up jerusalem that it would always remain israeli's undivided capital the audience stood in applause and mr. clinton joined them in standing as well
wolf blitzer at the white house thanks for joining us
it has been a weekend of heightened ethnic tensions in bosnia
hundreds of muslims tried to return to their former homes now controlled by serbs the draw a sacred muslim holiday
c. n. n.'s jackie shymanski reports nato forces were called to intervene
one of the holiest days of the muslim faith was met with high security in bosnia
muslims intent on going home across former front lines were met by nato troops intent on keeping things calm
the plan worked for some about sixty muslims made it to doboj to visit cemeteries in a city they used to call home
it is in serb territory now and an angry mob let them know it
serb police kept the ethnic rivals from coming to blows
but near the town of teslic they kept about two hundred muslims from going home
the police warned more serbs were up the road armed with clubs and stones
the visit came to an abrupt halt at a former front line where nato troops stood ready
it's the type of confrontation that made classic during the days the united nations was in charge here agreements made and broken in almost the same breath
here the bosnian serbs say muslim civilians will not be allowed to return until they find out the fate of dozens of missing soldiers
the international police force tasked with escorting the busloads of refugees decided the visit will have to wait for another day when cooler heads prevail
i saw the other side and i warning you if you go because some people will be hurt i know i'm sure
anger and frustration are the response anger at the serbs
let them kill us shouts this woman but we are going there to our own land frustration with the nato implementation force which does not have to provide security for refugee returns under its present mandate even though that right is a cornerstone of the dayton peace accord
they told us we could go in peace yet they cannot provide that for us the angry group goes no further though
instead the muslim refugees turn back and away from what used to be theirs of the chance and the right to go home
jackie shymanski c. n. n. near teslic in northern bosnia
the white house served as a courthouse for a brief time sunday as president clinton testified on videotape in the grand jury proceedings of his former whitewater partners and arkansas governor jim guy tucker
c. n. n.'s bob franken reports
defendants and lawyers emerged in the early evening after four and one half hours the time it took to question president clinton before a video camera after he had spent the morning trying to look as if this was just a normal sunday
but after church the president had gone back to the white house to give his testimony for the whitewater trial
participants say that defense attorneys asked questions for only about an hour
the president is not a defendant in the trial but two of the co defendants looked on jim and susan mcdougal former whitewater partners of the clintons
the prosecution took about four times as long to ask its questions as we took on direct
i think that's probably about all i can tell you
although the judge has ordered strict secrecy of the taped testimony until it's played to the jury sources say that as expected the president repeated his denials of the charges from this man david hale who says that ten years ago governor clinton pressured him to make an illegal loan
i think the president's testimony obviously is corroborative of our position
we are going to be filing a motion to dismiss the case but if we have to go forward this testimony will be very very helpful to susan mcdougal
as the president testified on camera at the white house the judge ruled on objections as he watched by scrambled satellite signal in little rock
the tape is under court seal and may not be released even after it's played for the jury
white house lawyers argue opponents would use it against him in the campaign and on c. n. n.'s late edition with frank sesno republican national chairman haley barbour wouldn't rule that out
no we wouldn't
the fact of the matter though is that the reason this has all gone on so long is repeatedly the clinton white house and the administration has refused to turn over subpoenaed documents
meanwhile newsweek reports that hillary rodman clinton's long missing legal billing records that turned up in january at the white house have her fingerprints on them
mrs. clinton testified about the records in front of a washington grand jury
her lawyer says the fingerprints are not surprising since she acknowledges she might have seen the records during the ninety two campaign
a white house source called this an outrageous leak just as independent counsel kenneth starr is under criticism for partisanship
starr's office put out its own statement decrying any improper disclosure
meanwhile the white house is trying to downplay the significance of today's questions
i wouldn't read more into this than just the testimony of a defense witness in the case
but this is not just any defense witness
even though the president is not a defendant in the trial charges about his conduct are the main reason for a whitewater investigation
bob franken c. n. n. the white house
after a second day of marathon negotiations a former green beret colonel says the montana freemen are ready to end their thirty five day standoff with federal agents but there's a big catch
c. n. n.'s don knapp has been monitoring developments at the freemen compound and he joins us now live with the latest
don
martin bo gritz said to us the hollering and the shouting was so intense and so loud in that little white house you see behind me about a mile away from here that he wondered if those of us on media hill who have been watching from here could hear what was going on inside
gritz and his associate jack mclamb spent another seven and one half hours inside meeting with the freemen
afterwards gritz and mclamb jumped in their automobile left the area came up his road drove past us were checked out by f. b. i. and then drove on to a road block about eight or ten miles from here and held a brief news conference just as they did yesterday
gritz said the freemen have a proposal to end the standoff that is they have a stack of legal documents and they want the federal government to take this stack of legal documents and go over the law as they understand it and prove to them that they are wrong
if they are wrong the freemen say then they will come out
now gritz said that this was a very complex stack of legal documents the arguments were difficult to understand
he said he did not understand them and he said he knew that it would be quite a challenge for anyone to do that
and of course no one was able to make clear what it was that would constitute proof to the freemen that they were wrong
then gritz said he had a counter proposal and offered that to the freemen
there are two courses of action will everybody agree you're either dead or you're alive
and that's the only thing that we've been agree on in the last two days
and they said that is affirmative you're either dead or you're alive
and i said now if you're dead it's finished so there isn't a need to talk about that i said the only other two courses of action if you're alive is that you either come out with dignity with your head held high so that america can see what you really look like and you stand for you go in a courtroom and you have the best representation you can have and you take your points to the people and i said or the other course of action is that you come out in chains with your faces in the dirt like a bunch of dogs the way that you normally see suspects treated and america gets a chance to see you like that because the media you know are behind the lines
and they offered a third
they said well there is a third course of action and that is our grand jury and the way they described that is that they have closed circuit television in their house the governor has closed circuit television in the montana legislature in helena and that they talk back and forth and i said you really think that's going to happen and they said no and so we crossed out the third course of action
gritz says he's still trying to convince the freemen that what they need is a good attorney in a court of law and to take their battle there and battle it out
he said that gerry spence got a lot of excitement yesterday
he's not sure there's as much excitement for that prospect today
he said he's still going to keep hammering on that
there was one other thing the freemen sent out a videotape which they offered as a message to the media
that was offered at the news conference as a matter of a pool that also that all of the news organizations here could take a look at that
the f. b. i. took that tape said they would make copies and we are yet to see copies of the tape
martin
don did gritz know that stewart waterhouse came out while he was in there yesterday
he knew
he did not tell us yesterday
he did tell us today that he knew and here's how he described it
he said that waterhouse simply walked away from his guard duty post walked off and went with the f. b. i. the people inside not very happy about it
they said that they are calling him a federal agent
o. k. c. n. n.'s don knapp in brusett montana thank you very much
for the second straight day there was no fighting along the israeli lebanese border and more refugees returned to their homes
who stands to gain politically from the cease fire between israel and hezbollah guerrillas
c. n. n.'s rob reynolds has more on that
as the dust clears from the sixteen day war in southern lebanon it emerges that the player who may have gained the most and lost the least is syrian president hafez el assad
he has won recognition from both the u. s. and israel for being the major player in lebanon
only a month ago assad was diplomatically isolated after boycotting the sharmel sheck anti terrorism summit conference
but last week he was the center of a diplomatic frenzy as a parade of foreign ministers and the u. s. secretary of state came hats in hand to the strong man of damascus
the united states basically negotiated this agreement with the syrians with the lebanese and with the israelis and i must say the syrian role was a very large one
at one point christopher was left cooling his heels in damascus as assad postponed a meeting a snub not appreciated in washington
israel earned worldwide condemnation for the massacre of lebanese civilians in qana and failed to knock out hezbollah despite massive applications of military force
in the deal that emerged hezbollah is prohibited from attacking targets in israel but the guerrillas can continue to strike israeli troops in the southern lebanon security zone a reflection of assad's view that hezbollah is fighting a legitimate war against israeli occupation
hezbollah is not too unhappy with the agreement and they feel they can live with it which means they can go on fighting
behind the proxy war in lebanon is the longstanding syrian israeli confrontation centering on israel's occupation of the golan heights
peace talks between the two countries broke off after the wave of terrorist bombings in israel in march
israel sees an opportunity rising from the lebanon agreement
in a way this crisis strengthened the momentum towards peace with syria and with lebanon
we created a kind of a peace club
the u. s. administration will work on getting assad and the winner of next month's israeli election back to the negotiating table
both sides want a comprehensive peace settlement but they are still far from reaching one
rob reynolds c. n. n. jerusalem
it has been almost seven years since china crushed the pro democracy uprising at tiananmen square in beijing
a new movie now being shown at a washington film festival chronicles the event that remains a taboo subject in official chinese circles
c. n. n.'s anthony collings reports
this is a film the chinese government doesn't want you to see
china's embassy asked a washington d. c. film festival not to show the gate of heavenly peace a documentary about the chinese protest movement that ended with bloodshed in tiananmen square
if such a film is shown during the festival it will certainly mislead the audience and hurt the feelings of one point two billion chinese people
but festival organizers rejected the request
we did not give an iota of a second of consideration to not showing the film
the chinese government says that you shouldn't see this film
then all the more reason why i would want to
if the chinese government doesn't like the message this film brings i think that they themselves then ought to release more information about what really happened at tiananmen
the three hour film criticizes both the chinese government for suppressing the protest movement and also some protesters for not being democratic enough
beijing thinks the film is one sided
confusing right and wrong the film the gate of heavenly peace sings praise of these people engaged in anti government violence and attacks the chinese government
the film doesn't sing praises to anyone
it examines a political process
and what of china's charge that the film distorts the facts
that's just a piece of hype
i think we tried very very hard to examine the facts and just because the facts don't somehow jibe with the official line doesn't mean they're not facts
the film's producers say china tried and failed to have it pulled from a new york film festival as well as the one in washington
it's also been shown in san francisco berlin and hong kong but not china
by trying to get this film removed china has stimulated curiosity and ticket sales
ironically that means that more people will see the film the one thing china didn't want
anthony collins c. n. n. washington
is it better the second time around
some new jersey couples decided to find out by making another trip to the altar and repeating the vows they made years ago
c. n. n.'s cynthia tornquist has more
husbands and wives said i do for the second time as more than five hundred couples celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversaries at sacred heart basilica in newark new jersey
when i married my wife the war bride she was sixteen years old
everybody told us it wouldn't last five months and here it is fifty years
and that's the blessing for us
love at first sight
that's what is was and it still is
each year for the past twenty five years the newark archdiocese has honored couples celebrating their golden anniversaries
this year has special significance
fifty years ago was the end of the second world war and many people had waited to get married until the boys came home and so there were many marriages in that year
churches across the country have taken an increasing role in marriages by offering couples counseling in an attempt to combat the staggering divorce rate
they get caught up in the business of being married the working out of who does what the roles and worrying about money and the home and the children
all of a sudden there's these other things interfering
in contrast couples celebrating their fifth anniversary also renewed their vows in a later ceremony
the mixture of young and old allowed for some discussion on how views of marriage have changed in fifty years
a lot of people do consider it disposable well if it doesn't work out we can just start again
but many believe they can make it to their fiftieth anniversaries too
if we live that long yeah god willing
what's the secret to a long marriage
you'd better trust one another and have faith and work together
and work hard
for better or for worse
we've had a contract of great confidence between the two of us
in an era when one in two marriage ends in divorce these couples have managed to stay together through good times and bad and by doing so proving that some marriages can survive the test of time
cynthia tornquist c. n. n. newark new jersey
well for one group of gun owners however only the wild west offers the right thrills
mark burnheimer targets these gunslingers at their annual shoot out
most of the time the only shots brent meinhart deals with are the kind that deliver novocaine but on his free time meinhart forgets about gums and picks up his guns
the hemken family shoots baskets when they have free time together that's when they're not dressed up like cowboys shooting targets
they're part of a rare breed of gun enthusiast and they gathered outside los angeles for the annual end of trail jubilee which combines marksmanship with authentic old west costumes and weapons
they're shooting with real guns but they're like antiques because these guns are some of them have guns that were handed down from grandparents and they really treasure these items and the shoot
there's an element of mystery to the whole competition
you never know who's under that hat or behind that six shooter
it could be a lawyer a carpenter or even your dentist
dentists are kind of a really wide diversified bunch of people and they do everything from fly airplanes to shoot guns to play with computers to wrangle horses
this is a place where even children are allowed to carry guns and members realize that may be hard for some people to understand
to us or to me anyway it's just another form of recreation
it's like a golf club or a bowling ball
really it's just a tool to enjoy the sport with
ken's teenage son james says he's the envy of his classmates
well first they laugh and they think it's funny and then they think it's pretty nifty because we get to go and shoot real guns and they're amazed at that
the competition is anything but child's play
it takes discipline and a steady hand to be accurate with a one hundred year old gun
and there is plenty at stake
the winners will go home with trophies prizes and bragging rights
the losers will go back to their normal lives as teachers accountants doctors students dreaming of next year
mark burnheimer for c. n. n. norco california
the cease fire between israel and hezbollah guerrillas in lebanon is just over twenty five hours old and now that sixteen days of fierce fighting appear to have subsided tens of thousands of refugees from both sides of the border are returning to their home
as c. n. n.'s brent sadler reports in southern lebanon grim reminders of the violence remain
the rush home began within hours of the cross border cease fire coming into effect a constant stream of traffic heading to south lebanon the refugees using the same route that had been under gunfire only hours before
there were some smiles aboard the thousands of trucks and cars but not for very long
they soon discovered the extent of the damage
huge bomb craters slowed down the flow of vehicles
people prayed that their homes were still standing after more than two weeks of israeli attacks but first they had to navigate the many obstacles of war
some village communities were completely cut off by the damage to roads
in desperation many families abandoned their vehicles and reached their properties by foot a long trek across difficult terrain
communities were reunited amid the ruins
on the outskirts of nabatir where hezbollah is strong government workers began to repair broken power lines one of the first priorities
hezbollah supporters hoisted a banner condemning the american backed peace plan but the guerrillas translate the new understanding between themselves and the israelis as a victory for their resistance
israel was unable to destroy one katyusha rocket launcher says this hezbollah sheikh
that shows shimon peres who was victorious
for the returning refugees there may be calm now but south lebanon remains a war zone a place where lebanon's resistance to israel's occupation goes on
in bombing south lebanon israel claims it was gunning for hezbollah but the guerrilla force remains intact
it is lebanese civilians who have paid the highest price for the conflict
a family weeping by the roadside of the village of mansuri south of tyre paid such a price
they found that their home was hit during an air strike the building collapsed into a pile of rubble
they had built it themselves
laylah and hassan mudaleh now left with nothing
hassan is a carpenter and works for united nations
this is what his home looked like before
he can only hope that the lebanese government will compensate him for the loss
my life is destroyed it's destroyed
i don't know how can i build another house out where i live
in khana where israeli shells killed about a hundred civilians they're waiting for a mass funeral
national leaders will participate in a day of mourning
lebanon is still in pain but amid the suffering a smile of relief and hope that civilians will be spared further tragedy
brent sadler c. n. n. tyre south lebanon
a tough talking former green beret is trying to get the anti government freemen to give up
bo gritz helped agents negotiate an end to the nineteen ninety two siege at ruby ridge idaho
he met with reporters last hour after seven hours with the freemen
c. n. n.'s don knapp is outside the montana ranch
don any sign of movement on day thirty four
jeanne there is sign of movement we think
this cold and windy day may have brought some new developments perhaps significant developments to this long and so far fruitless standoff
two outside negotiators two negotiators who are said to be sympathetic to the freemen view did spend seven hours inside the ranch house at missimi see over my right shoulder there and on the long lens as we take a close look at the house where the people are this evening after these negotiations continued all day today
we will tell you that these two men tried to bring a case to negotiators to try to get them to end this long standoff
bo gritz of course who takes some credit for the for helping at least to end the standoff in ruby ridge idaho in nineteen ninety two the standoff that saw the shooting and deaths of randy weaver's wife and son
that person because of those reasons has come here and he tells us that he was met with open arms by the people who were here
they also said they wanted to see randy weaver and we understand now that randy weaver will be going in tomorrow
both of those gentlemen came out of here about two and a half hours ago
as we look at the car that came up the road we could see that in the driver's seat was bo gritz
next to him was jack mclamb
bo gritz gave us a salute
jack mclamb gave us a thumbs up indicating what we were to hear a little bit later a fairly optimistic view of what happened
we went to the news conference and we heard from them that they are fairly confident that the hurdles that stand between them and the standoff can be resolved
they think they have a way of resolving the standoff
these guys are the salt of the earth
everyone of them have sidearms strapped on them they have a gun in every room it would appear but they are not violent people i don't think by nature
they will only use firearms if their lives are threatened
their hands are big and rough
they've obviously been a part of the land for a long time
they're mad because they said if you few media would go to the courthouse here in garfield county and investigate what has happened you would see the skullduggery
but i was much encouraged because for example they said we would consider gerry spence as a defense and i had suggested john dekamp
the fact that they would consider an attorney as a defense tells me that we've gotten much closer to an arrangement here that might work for both of us
their idea of a grand jury is somewhat similar to what the state legislature has offered only they're saying in the state legislature to stand up and state their case has no jurisprudence and they want it to be something a little more toward article three in the constitution
but it's not it didn't sound like it was unreasonable
for example i said well who do you make a grand jury up of and they said well it should you know it could be people but in the regular grand juries the prosecuting attorney completely controls it and you aren't allowed to present any evidence in this kind of thing and as far as i know that's true
so the federal government i of course will debrief the f. b. i. negotiators on this so that maybe they can do some work to bring us closer
i don't feel like there is a lazarus rich man abraham gap here
i think this thing is bridgeable
gritz also said that he doesn't think that any of those inside are white supremacists
he made a big deal about saying that they're just salt of the earth kind of people
he also said that a tentative deal that the f. b. i. seemed to have yesterday through a family member that went in to visit that would have brought out of that house a woman by the name of gloria and her two children failed at the last minute because of some wording on a document
apparently this gloria is facing some charges concerning the children and she wanted to have a better definition of whether or not the charges would be dropped
he said he'll be working on that and taking that back in and seeing if they can clarify that and perhaps get an agreement
he suspects that they are a little bit short of food in there but he says that they do have a firm resolve and stay in and once again he said that they welcomed him with open arms
they want to see randy weaver
he's going to try to get randy weaver inside tomorrow and the next few days
we're going to see if the f. b. i. will allow that and if that can be accomplished
jeanne
don you mentioned that they appeared to be a little bit short on food
did gritz share anything else about the condition on the ranch the number of people the kind of weaponry they have their mental attitude
he did say that he saw weapons everywhere that they were well armed but went on to stress that they were non violent
he also said that he was concerned at first because he didn't see the girls but he said they did show up and they looked healthy and happy
he said one girl lamented that she was not able to have a taco bell but he said that he didn't seem to think that anybody was malnourished
so that's about all the picture that we got from him of life on the ranch but apparently he did observe that they were short of food
don knapp in montana thanks for joining us
since they're spending most of the winter knee deep in snow many americans are finding themselves up to their hubcaps in headaches
the snow ice and salt may be gone from the roads but the void they left behind lingers
reporter jim angle fills us in
last winter seemed like it would never end and for drivers all over the country it has not
the snow and rain left some nasty scars on the nation's roads even some pedestrians had to take evasive action
and for those who drive for a living it's an urban minefield
i've been driving a cab for thirty three years and this year is the absolute worst i have ever seen it
it's a safety issue ultimately
either the act of avoiding a pothole at high speed will cause somebody to swerve into another lane and that could cause an accident or just hitting a big enough pothole and losing control
there are no figures on how much potholes cost in accidents but there is plenty of evidence they're leaving a big dent in many drivers' bank accounts
americans will spend two billion dollars this year paying for repairs from bad roads
a lot of times you can't even see them until you're right up on them because like they'd be level with the road and before you know it boom
well he hit a pothole and this wheel just came over the vehicle and with the lugnuts and everything
hubcap tom's is sort of a pothole warehouse and they know how bad the roads are
when unsuspecting drivers plunge into a small crater their next stop is here
we got three four hundred people in a day come by here
yeah it's a circus
sometimes it's down here two blocks lined up
maybe these guys have a piece of the presidential limo
mr. clinton went golfing recently and came back two under par on hubcaps
cheaper forms of public transportation can't escape a pounding either
the cities are trying
baltimore for instance has filled some seventy seven thousand potholes just since january new york one hundred twenty five thousand potholes so far but in some cities potholes are still as plentiful as politicians' promises and the spring rains will bring even more
as one street commissioner put it potholes are just like the sun they're out there every morning jim angle for c. n. n. washington
what do you want to be when you grow up it's a question often asked of children and one that often goes unanswered
an annual open house at the university of georgia is hoping to change all of that at least for a few of the undecided
c. n. n.'s dave hennen reports
it's a rite of spring
the university of georgia veterinarian school like many others across the country holds an annual open house
from preschool all the way up to high school nearly five thousand kids gathered here on the u. g. a. campus not only to pique their interest in animals but also to interest them in a possible future career in veterinary medicine
junior surgery students operate on injured stuffed animals
kids get up close and personal with some pretty snazzy equipment like the endiscope used to investigate those hard to reach places
for young cowpokes there's the calf roping lesson
you don't have to rope cattle to get into veterinarian school but getting in can be just as tough
veterinary college is not an easy subject
unlike medical school we deal with more than one species and in many ways it's much more difficult than medical school is so the kids have got to be really prepared and they've got to be really enthusiastic
it is a tough four years
do you want to be a veterinarian when you grow up
yeah
i gotta think about this
if i have to clean up their poop no
the farm animals on display belong to the professors
most don't seem to mind the extra attention
after a day full of animal activities it's time to pick up the bear from the recovery room and think about the future
dave hennen c. n. n. reporting
you know some people go to auctions to save money
but in the united states this week people spent nearly ten times as much as the sellers at sotheby's had expected
they were buying pieces of the life of the late jacqueline bouvier kennedy onassis
now to some they were pieces of modern american mythology
the legacy of the so called camelot years' of the early sixties when the white house was home to the kennedy family
c. n. n. has more
at a government run museum in boston people can see the life of president john kennedy and his family
at a commercial auction house in new york last week a few people could buy some of it
sold for seventy five thousand dollars
in the nineteen sixties john and jacqueline kennedy captivated the nation
i think she had manners she had style those things you don't see anymore
that style transformed a seven hundred dollar necklace of false pearls immortalized in a photo with her young son
sold for one hundred ninety thousand dollars
this was not false
her diamond engagement ring from aristotle onassis went for two point five million dollars
and the continuing fascination with the presidential widow who went on to marry one of the world's wealthiest men sent the prices of the nearly thirteen hundred items her children sold soaring well above auctioneer's estimates
thirty five thousand dollars then
a doctor paid that much for a pair of candlesticks
her third winning bid
i think i've actually spent enough already because i have pieces that are meaningful
golf meant a lot to the late president
at one hundred ten one hundred twenty one hundred thirty thousand
but when the bidding for one set of his clubs came close to seven figures meaningful had limits
seven hundred thousand
it's against you sir
i heard that the other bidder was going to go to a million
so i didn't want to go that high
and i just dropped out
there was national history for sale as well
ask not what your country can do for you
auctioneers guessed a recording of that speech would bring two hundred dollars
six thousand dollars to one thousand two hundred sixty
thank you
that's a record for a record
an ormalu desk valuable in its own right on which kennedy signed the nineteen sixty three nuclear test ban treaty
at one million dollars three hundred thousand
sold
on of the rocking chairs his doctor recommended to ease his chronic back pain
sold for four hundred thousand dollars
given the prices most people who bought were happy
eleven thousand dollars and you're all done eleven thousand
good
that's my piece of camelot basically
and we got it
so were the kennedy children who sold to benefit their mother's estate
i would have to say they're surprised and very pleased
the auction house gets ten to fifteen percent above the sale price in commission the federal government may get twenty eight to fifty five percent of the rest in tax
from c. n. n. in the united states mark leff for the c. n. n. world report
it's all things considered i'm daniel zwerdling
the people of israel and the islamic group hezbollah continue to breathe a bit easier today on the second day of their cease fire
and israeli prime minister shimon peres used the breathing space to come to washington for talks with president clinton
peres who faces elections in a few weeks began the day at the pentagon where he and secretary of defense william perry announced that the two countries will work together to bolster israel's anti missile defenses
as the whole world knows israel's attempts to strike back at the hezbollah guerrillas as they were firing rockets at israel from across the lebanese border had one disastrous side effect heavy civilian casualties in lebanon
and as n. p. r.'s john nielsen reports that seems to be one of the issues behind today's announcement
defense secretary william perry says israel will soon be making two big improvements in the defenses it uses against enemy rockets
first american missile tracking technologies fed by early warning satellites will be permanently hooked into israeli missile warning systems and by extension the israeli civil defense system
perry says that's an arrangement that's already been tried on a temporary basis
and that worked very well during the time of desert storm
under the new arrangement perry said
a warning will be given in a matter of seconds to any ballistic missile launch that in any way would threaten israel
and over the weeks ahead we will work out the specifics of how we're going to do that
the second set of new defenses against enemy rockets only exists as a prototype so far
known as the nautilus anti ballistic missile system it's still being developed by an american defense firm t. r. w.
alouf ben a national security affairs correspondent with a leading israeli newspaper says it's far from clear how long it will take to get this system perfected and installed
but he adds that early tests have been encouraging
it performed very well in tests a few weeks ago in new mexico here and in which it very successfully intercepted and destroyed a katyusha rocket during its trajectory in the air
katyusha rockets fired by hezbollah guerrillas from lebanon into northern israel this month were what sparked the massive and ultimately disastrous israeli counterattacks that continued until a u. s. brokered truce ended the fighting
there are other aspects of the new agreement binding u. s. and israeli defenses
one will involve closer cooperation between anti terrorist units from each of the two countries
appearing at the press conference alongside secretary perry israeli prime minister shimon peres says he's well aware that israel is threatened by far more than missiles today
peres says he receives a warning of a possible new terrorist attack every day at breakfast
but peres says he thought this new arrangement would go a long way towards reducing the danger of the rocket attacks that have lately done so much damage to his country
i'm john nielsen in washington
now that the fighting between israel and hezbollah has stopped politicians and diplomats began turning their attention again to the main struggle in the middle east the struggle to make a permanent peace between the israelis and the palestinians
there are still major hurdles facing both sides controversies over prisoner exchanges troop withdrawals and even the whole question of a palestinian state itself and the process is likely to be complicated by next month's israeli elections
n. p. r.'s eric weiner reports from jerusalem
the fighting in lebanon nearly eclipsed the historic moment in gaza
by an overwhelming majority the palestinian national council the p. l. o.'s parliament in exile revoked the clauses in its charter that called for the destruction of israeli
ziad abu ziad is a member of the council
we wanted to demonstrate to the whole world and to the israelis of course our commitment to peace
and that when we went to the peace option we went to it as a result of self convincing process where we were convinced that this is the best and maybe the only option which is making peace with israel and recognizing israel
perhaps even more remarkable than the vote itself was the timing
the p. l. o. made its peace gesture during the height of israel's military offensive in south lebanon
shlomo aveniri a professor at hebrew university in jerusalem says that shows just how resilient the peace process is
it is almost incredible that it's precisely during the week of this campaign that the palestinian national council found it possible to abrogate and change the palestinian covenant and introduce a new kind of language in the israeli palestinian relationships
aveniri says that relationship has already improved dramatically
in the past few months israel has withdrawn from most of gaza and parts of the west bank handing over one town after another to yasir arafat's palestinian authority
you do have now a situation with the majority of the palestinians in what was once the occupied territories live now under palestinian autonomous rule
they do not see israeli soldiers
they're being ordered around by palestinian policemen palestinian soldiers palestinian security services palestinian bureaucrats not israeli ones
this is a major achievement
most palestinians are no doubt happy to see their own police patrolling the streets rather than israeli soldiers
but palestinian officials charge that israel has not lived up to all of its commitments
israel has yet to withdraw from the west bank town of hebron and is still holding several thousand palestinian prisoners
but what most angers them is israel's continued closure of the west bank and gaza a virtual blockade of the territories imposed two months ago after a series of suicide bombings by the radical islamic group hamas
because of the closure most of the sixty thousand palestinians who normally work in israel can't get to their jobs
palestinian official ziad abu ziad
israel is imposing a very severe siege and closure of the palestinian territories which are making the life of the people almost impossible
so we expect the israeli government to start releasing the pressure on our people and implementing the commitments which they had to do according to the agreement signed between us and israel
israel will reportedly soon honor one of those commitments by withdrawing from hebron early next month
but for a handful of groups that is not enough
they vow to fight the entire peace process
hezbollah despite last week's cease fire says it will continue its struggle against israel's occupation of southern lebanon and hamas has threatened more suicide attacks
it might look as if the peace process is under siege but galia golan a spokeswoman for the group peace now says that's not the case
these are very small extremist groups who are taking very basically last ditch desperate measures because the peace process was going forward because the mass of the population on both sides wanted to reach a peace agreement
the next step in the peace process begins on may fifth
that's when palestinian and israel negotiators will begin discussing the most contentious issues between them what will happen to the more than one hundred thousand jewish settlers living in the west bank what will be the future status of jerusalem and perhaps most crucial will there be a truly independent palestinian state
this is eric weiner in jerusalem
house democrats on capitol hill say they're going to try again this week to pass a bill raising the minimum wage from four dollars and twenty five cents an hour to five dollars and fifteen cents
republicans narrowly blocked the vote last week but even senate majority leader robert dole says the measure will probably eventually pass
opponents say raising the minimum wage would hurt businesses and workers in the long run
supporters suggest it's a small step toward helping low income americans reach for the american dream
and we found ourselves wondering what is the american dream exactly and why do so many americans according to the polls seem to believe it's slipping away
journalist robert samuelson dug into the history books and he says the first time he was able to find anybody actually writing about the american dream was in nineteen thirty one during the great depression
in a book called the epic of america historian james adams defined the american dream as the dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for every man with opportunity for each according to his ability or achievement
but you know what robert samuelson says the idea that life actually can keep getting better for every american was is and always will be an impossible fantasy
we sort of turn this notion this american dream into a fantasy in the sense that we really expected a sort of utopian society in which we would have almost no social problems no economic problems and we would reach a kind of level of individual self fulfillment and contentment and happiness sort of unprecedented in human history
and i think to that extent the american dream became a fantasy
and according to samuelson's new book americans have deluded themselves with this fantasy this expectation that life should and can keep getting better because they or their parents have lived through an extraordinary and unusual fifty year period of american history
that period began during the great depression
the economy was in shambles
millions were standing in bread lines
unemployment levels approached twenty percent
then along came the new deal and it looked as if government was solving their problems
and the new deal helped samuelson says but the truth is it did not end the depression
in nineteen thirty nine unemployment was still seventeen percent a shocking rate by today's standards
no samuelson says the depression really ended when world war two exploded
so while million of americans and others were dying overseas the war effort here at home jump started the economy and kicked it into high gear
the unemployment rate essentially went almost to zero
people who hadn't worked in a long time were working again
people were saving
there was a sense of getting ahead
and more importantly there was a sense of our national institutions working again which had been completely gone in the nineteen thirties
and so i think when people came out of the second world war they had this informal notion that we should try to perpetuate what had worked during the war
there was no in my view no specific agenda for national action
and then you had in the first twenty years after the second world war a phenomenal economic boom
and what was interesting and relevant about this boom in my view is that it contradicted widespread popular expectations after the war that we were going to go back into another depression
in nineteen forty six sixty percent of americans believed that we would have another depression within a decade
and then you had this phenomenal boom
and so people begun to assume that as in the second world war we could solve almost any problems that we had defeated the nazis and the japanese in the second world war
people began to compare our social problems and our economic problems to war
in other words we could solve any problem if we put our mind to it if we devoted enough resources to it just as we had defeated the nazis and the japanese in the second world war
and this sort of mind set of what i call the politics of problem solving that really i argue in the book became a dominant strain of post war politics not liberalism not conservatism but politics of problem solving
lo and behold
the war on poverty the war on drugs the war on crime
let me just step back though for a moment to the fifties and the sixties because what was it during that period as people started buying wonderful little brick homes and everybody started getting an automobile and people had lawns and you know we started identifying that vision with the phrase the american dream where did that how did americans start making the phrase american dream synonymous to this land of cars and suburban houses and all of the rest of it
well i think again you know throughout our history material progress has always been identified with progress social progress in general
there's been a large overlap here
and i think that people in the thirties in the forties and after the war definitely felt that leaving crowded noisy congested to some extent crime infested cities and moving to the quiet peaceful orderly safe suburbs was a huge advance in their lives
and most people felt that way
and also the notion of owning your own home resonated with american sense of self sufficiency of independence of property whatever
so i think it was very natural for these symbols of suburbia to become identified in news magazines and television and popular consciousness with the american dream
but it did not really become a staple it seems to me of political conversation and op ed pieces radio talk show interviews whatever until twenty or twenty five years ago
now i could be wrong but the concept it seems to me was always there
so now let's jump to present day america
we see crime on the increase we see drugs everywhere we see people getting laid off by the tens of thousands from single companies
and we have our president president clinton asking in his saying in his state of the union speech two years ago many people feel the american dream is slipping away from us
if america was good enough to you know win world war two and to have this incredible period of prosperity in the fifties and sixties why shouldn't we be doing a better job solving these problems now and giving people what they want
well maybe we should be doing a better job in solving some of these problems and i would hope that we can do a better job in solving some of these problems
but the argument i make in the book is that the reason we feel so frustrated about these problems is not that they are new and in some cases they are not worse than they were in the past
in many cases our living circumstances are much better than they were in the past
but the argument i make in the book is that people feel so frustrated because they are comparing what we have today to with what they expected to have and what they expected to have was unrealistic
we expected that this sort of wave of post war prosperity would automatically eliminate most of our social and economic problems
we expected that modern economists and modern corporate managers were so smart that they could make an economic system that wouldn't have any business cycles they wouldn't have any layoffs they wouldn't have companies that ever went bankrupt
these to me were unrealistic expectations
and let me give you an example
if you ask about the economy it seems to me although many people say we've had stagnating living standards that that simply is not true
it's certainly not true over the last fifty years and i would argue it's not true over the last twenty or twenty five years
not even for middle income and low income people
not even for middle income
let me just give you some ask yourself what do people have today they didn't have twenty or twenty five years ago
v. c. r.s
v. c. r.s microwave ovens personal computers central air conditioning
in nineteen seventy about thirteen percent of american homes had central air conditioning
today my guess is about forty five percent of homes
homes are much bigger today than they were in even nineteen seventy
the new homes in nineteen seventy were about one thousand two hundred square feet
they're now almost two thousand square feet and people are moving up the sort of the food chain of homes into bigger homes
and you're not mainly describing upper income people here
number
when you talk about the proportion of people who say have cable television
in nineteen seventy four four percent of american households had cable television
now almost sixty percent have cable television
i don't know if that's a vision of the american dream
well it may not be an advance but it's a choice that people make and it's something you ask who went to college in nineteen seventy
even in nineteen seventy less than half of the high school graduates went to college
now it's almost two thirds
you can go on and on and on and find these actual indicators of what we buy what we consume what we have that we didn't have twenty or twenty five years ago
but what is absolutely true and explains a lot of the frustration is that the income gains in the twenty twenty five years have been much slower than they were in the first twenty five years after the second world war
they have been much slower than people expected and therefore this slowdown from expectations feels like stagnation and it contradicts the sort of feeling that we had that everything was just going to constantly get better and better at an ever accelerating rate
you know it seems to me one of the most profound arguments in your book whether or not people will agree with it is that the american public has structured the way life works in a completely phony and warped way
earlier you said what we got into after world war two was this analogy of war we can declare a war on something and solve it
and you say that the correct analogy for looking at the economy and social issues is not war it's nature
we had this analogy at that really became very popular in the nineteen sixties and kennedy used it and i think everybody bought onto it liberals and conservatives that the economy was a machine
and if you imagine the economy as a machine and it's not working right what you do is you call up a mechanic or somebody a repair person to come in and fix it
and if the guy you call in doesn't fix it you call somebody else
and that's essentially analogy we've had for the last twenty or twenty five years that if one set of politicians and economists didn't fix the economy we'd get another set
i mean you talk about the economy and social ills as being like a flood a river that
in our economy it's like a huge river that has vast number of ecosystems and you have some of these species that are flourishing and other ones that are kind of going in a decline
sometimes the river overflows its banks
we do things to keep the river sort of under control we build levees or dams or whatever and they work some of the time but they don't work all the time
and that it seems to and the river is always there
and these problems are always there and we always have to sort of deal with them
we always have to sort of monitor them
but the idea that we can control the river absolutely completely make it always go where we want it to go that's simply a fiction
in way what you're saying is that the nation is suffering some sort of national equivalent of a mid life crisis
you know where we grow up each of one us and at a certain point it's common both men and women to suddenly think oh my goodness i had all these dreams
i'm not attaining them
what's gone wrong you know you go into a tailspin
and you're basically saying that's what's happening to the country and we should grow up and accept that we can't have everything we want
and it seems to me on the one hand that's sort of healthy view but on the other hand there's a danger in it
the danger i see is that that argument will convince leaders and ordinary citizens to say poverty crime
we can't solve them
that's life and it seems to me americans deserve better than that
i agree totally with you
i mean this book is basically a descriptive book
it is not a book with a large agenda
but if you look for the implications there is the danger that people will take this description and make it into an argument for complacency
that is not what i am about and that's not what i mean to imply here
but it seems to me that we must much more disciplined and much more sophisticated in our expectations of our institutions than simply expecting us to solve every problem
so the argument is not to be complacent in our expectations but it's to be realistic in our expectations so that we don't ask our institutions and our leaders to do things that they can't do and then blame them for not doing these things
robert samuelson's new book is called the good life and its discontents the american dream in the age of entitlement
thanks very much
thank you very much
you're listening to all things considered on national public radio
this week in chicago it's back to the old days in the schools
eighth grade students will take a standardized test which will determine whether they'll graduate and go on to high school or flunk and be held back in eighth grade
and that's the way it used to be in many school systems
but some years ago administrators started promoting kids from grade to grade pretty much automatically no matter what their scores were like
the thinking was it's better for kids to stay with their own age group with their peers than to have to deal with the stigma of being left behind and they called the policy social promotions
but now the pendulum is swinging back again and the school boards in chicago and other cities have decided that if students can't show that they've learned what they're supposed to learn then they'll stay in the same grade
from chicago n. p. r.'s cheryl corley reports on the renewed popularity of retention policies
chicago with four hundred thirteen thousand public school students has one of the largest school systems in the nation
it also has a significant drop out rate forty two percent
the mandate in chicago used to be that a student would not be held back more than once in kindergarten through eighth grade
critics say that policy meant students who were failing in school tended to drop out
proponents of social promotions argued that a loss of self esteem from failing a grade might cause students more harm than doing poorly in class
lynn saint james the school's chief education officer feel differently
i'd rather have a student that's able to read and do mathematics as literacy enumerates these skills than one who feels good about himself and can't do either
saint james is responsible for implementing the new promotions policy
she says educators need to be held accountable for student performance
so we knew some basic changes had to be made in order for us to produce the kinds of graduates that both colleges and businesses want to hire
the change in policy means that this year third and sixth graders who have tested at least a year behind in school can go to an intense summer academic program
eighth graders will not be allowed to graduate if they are two or more years behind in reading and math and summer school will be mandatory
their fate will be determined by their scores on upcoming standardized tests
according to the national school board association a number of school districts agree with chicago's tougher school policy and see demotion as part of the equation to raise academic standards
mike resnik is an officer of the association
what's happening in chicago is that the investment is being made in order to work with those children who can't make the grade so that they don't automatically get left back and then become even more vulnerable to dropping out of school later on
last year in chicago about one percent of the eighth grade population three hundred seventy students failed to graduate
the new system could mean an increase in the retention rate and not everyone agrees that's the best policy for chicago or any school system
over the years norman infield a retired principal in west davis california has changed his mind about keeping kids back
you know retention just has some very negative connotations for children
that's part of what caused me to turn around was seeing youngsters that i had retained felt good about it thought it was right for them and then tracked them through school and saw the lasting effects of that on how they felt particularly when they felt too old among their peers three four five even six years later
university of colorado professor laurie shepard says there are several studies which show that over the long term students don't do better if they are held back
they do better in the repeat year many times and that's where the impression comes from that student's get a boost an academic boost from retention
but they do not do better in subsequent grades when they go onto new material than low achieving students who went directly on to the next grade
in ken hendricks' eighth grade class at chicago's pierce school students are busily preparing for next week's exams
the shift in policy has come just two months before the end of the school year giving teachers and students like michael sullivan little time to prepare
i think it's a good idea but it's also a bad idea because it's a good idea because you should be able to pass at least get a six point eight on the iowas to go on to move on to high school
but it's a bad idea because what happens if you have a bad day that day like you're sick or you're not feeling good or whatever
lynn saint james says teachers can vouch for students who perform well in school but not on the test
she says other standards besides the test will be used in the future like freshman academy set up to provide more intense training for students entering high school
professor laurie shepard says even students who get extra training will be more likely to drop out if they are not promoted
despite the controversy social promotions in chicago won't be eliminated entirely
students who become fifteen years of age will automatically go to high school
in chicago i'm cheryl corley
the students and teachers on the mutual respect committee at reed high school in sparks nevada handed out a survey to the student body not long ago and the results showed that ninety nine percent of the kids at the school use curse words on a regular basis
and so the committee went into action
it launched a two week campaign to try to persuade students to stop cursing
and we called student organizer scott hernandez the other day as the campaign was coming to a close
he said everybody knew kids cursed but the extent of it really jarred them
it was certainly disturbing and sort of surprising at the same time because we really don't recognize it any more
it's become such a problem in the school that poor language has become commonplace and almost accepted
so why did that disturb you or surprise you terribly
i mean you know kids are kids and kids use bad words
whether you like it or not it's pretty common
well because that's not how the real world is
i mean even though you know it is used by adults but when we get into a work place it's not very good
i had a friend who worked at macy's in reno and her language was so offensive to customers and she had so many complaints she was fired and she didn't understand why because she didn't speak any differently than she did at school
oh
she wasn't using these words to shock customers this is just the only language she knows
yeah and it's become almost unnoticed
we've become desensitized and it's not shocking in any stretch of the imagination
it's lost its shock value
so i take it that you and your fellow students and some of the teachers launched this campaign called
two bleepin' weeks
two bleepin' weeks
to kick it off we handed out little bars of soap sort of reminding you of like your mother and when she used to take you to the sink for saying bad words and soaping up your mouth
and then in between times i take it that every morning you have been getting on the public address system right
yeah
and sort of doing a take off of the david letterman show
yes we've been doing dave four letterman's top ten reasons why it's cool to swear
why it's cool to swear
yeah why it's cool to swear
it's very sarcastic
so can you give me five reasons why it's cool to swear
o. k.
well how about i give you the best ones in no particular order
o. k.
all right
reason number ten makes me blend in with my hommies
number six it makes people respect me
howard stern worships the ground i walk on
number one
number one is because i'm so refined the royal family wants to adopt me
i think that's my favorite actually
o. k. now i'm trying to picture how the students at edward c. reed high school must be responding to this campaign and i am guessing that at least some of the students are saying have you heard about this campaign
this guy scott hernandez he is obviously a sort of goodie goodie
i bet he's never said the word darn in his whole life
oh well i think everybody at reed knows me a little better than that
i think one of the reasons my teachers asked me to come on board with this is because i have foul language
oh really
horrible
and i've really really been working on
oh i had you typed all wrong
i thought you were probably one of these geeky kids who you know is perfect
oh well i am a geek but i'm not perfect
o. k.
but like people will come up to me in the halls during passing time and say hey is that you on the p. a. and i'm like yeah that's me and they're all that's stupid but then those same people later have talked to me and said well you know i've never really thought about it before you know because nobody really does think about it
you know that's what we're all about here
what impact has this had you know if any on kids' families
well your family for instance what
oh my family for instance
i've been really getting on my mom and dad to clean up their language too
oh you mean they curse a lot also
well not a lot but i mean more than is necessary i guess
i don't know it's just a problem
it shows a lack of class and i guess that's what i'm trying to do make everybody seem a little more refined in a sense
all right
student scott hernandez at the edward c. reed high school in sparks nevada
thanks very much
thank you sir
this time of year the modest population of high point north carolina doubles as more than seventy thousand furniture industry executives descend on the city from all over the world
for seventy five years now high point has hosted the semi annual international home furnishing market the place where furniture manufacturers sell their products to people who run retail stores
adam hochberg looked at some of the seventy square acres of furniture in high point this past week and has this report
high point north carolina is to furniture what wall street is to investment banking or hollywood is to motion pictures
twice a year for ten days at a time high point plays host to the world's largest furniture trade show a marketplace that fills a dozen downtown buildings
this is the super bowl the world series the kentucky derby of furniture whatever you want to call it
ed o'halloran is one of thousands of furniture executives who've made the trip to high point
he works for a small company called morena's that imports chairs tables and bedroom sets from mexico
like most of the vendors at the furniture market o'halloran spends his days standing in a small nondescript showroom surrounded by samples of his products
many of the showrooms have some sort of gimmick to attract attention
in o'halloran's case it's a miniature mexican style fountain that he hopes will lure customers inside
i encourage them to throw a coin in the fountain and make a wish just to sort of relax them and not sell them but let them just shop the display
and then if you know interest piques and you can always tell when interest piques when they say how much is that well then we'll move a little more into selling
the sales made here determine what you'll be able to buy at your local furniture store in the months ahead
most of the customers at the market the ones that ed o'halloran is working so hard to win over are owners of mom and pop furniture stores
they wear badges that loudly trumpet their home towns butte montana or verona italy
hidden among the crowd in hot point like gold nuggets in a rock pile are representatives of the big time furniture retailers who have a lot of money to spend like sears and j. c. penney and home depot
over the years o'halloran has learned how to recognize them
they don't wear the badges and they usually have like the ducklings three or four people trailing behind him
and if he nods his heads they all nod their heads
the mom and pops wear their badge and they're proud to be from kennekuk iowa and i've got the heavy hitters you don't know the reason they come in
one of those heavy hitters is jim macinville
he owns a store called gallery furniture one of the largest in houston
a sale to somebody big like macinville can make the difference for some manufacturers between a profitable market and a bad one
as he tours the showrooms at high point mac as he likes to be called is trailed by a swarm of sales reps all trying to win a place for their furniture in his store and trying to answer his rapid fire questions about wood finishes leather colors and upholstery
what side would you like best on this this
i tell you what i would suggest
you know the best seller that we have that we do the best with is rancher blue
isn't this just a variation of rancher blue
internet blue
mac has been to dozens of these furniture markets and says he's developed a eye for what to buy and what to pass up
he turns down a couch upholstered with a fabric called internet blue
not enough sheen he says
instead he'll take one in earthquake green
you look for something that has a lot of eye appeal and something that when the customer walks through that will make them stop in their tracks
that's the big thing and if you can do that then you've effectively broken through the clutter and you get them to sit on it and then hopefully they'll buy it
mac makes it sound easy
but in many places the furniture industry is having trouble getting customers to buy much of anything lately
it's suffering from a sales slump that's lasted several years
most of the executives at the market have the same complaint that young couples nowadays don't put as much importance on stylish furniture as their parents did
ron wannack is the chairman of the ashley companies one of the nation's largest furniture makers
the younger generation does not say entertain in their home the way people once did and with their spendable income they like to spend it on things that people see like their clothes their computers some of the fancy electronics nice cars
in an effort to get young people more interested in buying furniture wannack's company is introducing new products with more contemporary designs
meanwhile other furniture makers have looked at the amount of money young consumers spend on electronics and have adopted an attitude of if you can't beat 'em join 'em they're looking at ways to combine furniture with technology
some of the early attempts at high tech furniture come off as little more than curiosities
the franklin corporation a mississippi company is building couches and recliners with speaker phones built into the arm rests
franklin corporation
patty
yes
coleman
who was needing me at the front
franklin vice president coleman cody says his company is at the forefront of high tech furniture
not only does he sell couches with phones but also chairs with heaters and sleeper sofas with built in massagers
it's something new it's something different and with the generation that we're dealing with we like to have comfort we like to think ourself what do we do for self and this is just one of things
furniture stores are also trying to improve sales by expanding their product lines
more and more space at the furniture market is being filled with smaller less expensive items the kinds of things that used to be called knick knacks but the industry now calls home accents
at his showroom doug mcgrath is pushing a line of accents designed to make your home look more sophisticated and cultured
among his hottest sellers are fake books leather bindings that you can put on your shelf that look like expensive editions of shakespeare and dickens but really have no pages inside
to buy books today the average books runs anywhere from fifteen dollars to thirty dollars
so here we're offering seven or eight books for like fifty six dollars to seventy dollars
it doesn't help you though if you want to actually read any of those books
no virtually no intellectual value at all
some of the fake books are hollowed out so that your house guests will think you own the complete works of shakespeare but really what's inside are videotapes or c. d.s
and if that doesn't make your home look sophisticated enough mcgrath has other items
one of his home accent lines features figurines of classical composers
we did bach beethoven chopin liszt wagner and i'm forgetting somebody
you do them
on top of the fire tool sets on a magnifying glass on a letter opener on a wine opener and a cork stop
so you could stoke the fire with a replica of beethoven's head
yes absolutely
absolutely
most of the items at the furniture market are tagged with their wholesale prices the price that manufacturers charge resellers
organizers of the market spend a lot of time shooing the public away making sure the only people who buy here are representatives of furniture retailers
once the merchandise reaches the stores and the store owners add their own mark up to it the price you pay is often twice as high as the wholesale price at high point
i'm adam hochberg in raleigh north carolina
today is the muslim festival of the sacrifice one of the most sacred muslim holidays
it marks the end of the hadj the pilgrimage to mecca
god commanded all muslims to make this pilgrimage at least once in their lifetime unless they're too poor or too sick to perform a series of rituals to help purify their souls
all during the pilgrimage which lasts several days the pilgrims keep chanting the same prayer here i am at your service o. lord
here i am
here i am
we turned to three americans who practice islam and who've made that pilgrimage to what's now saudi arabia
they kept diaries of sorts during their journeys and shared them
first writer steve barboza who began his pilgrimage two years ago
after shaving and bathing at home in new york i boarded a saudi jetliner and completed other rituals
i uttered my intentions changed into a pilgrim's garb in the men's room and prayed in the aisle of the cabin
for the next several days i would wear nothing but a pilgrim's unsewn garments two sheets of white terry cloth one draped over my left shoulder the other wrapped around the lower part of my body
from jidda a modern city of neon lights five star hotels countless shopping malls and mosques i traveled by jeep on a five lane superhighway
i was still miles from mecca when we sped past the final checkpoint the place beyond which only muslims are permitted
that night i ate and slept just outside mecca at a camp site where thousands of tents had been pitched
early the next morning i boarded a bus and after traveling in snarled traffic we finally reached mecca an amalgam of ancient houses modern hotels labyrinthian streets and bustling souks
before long we arrived at a vast plaza
at one end stood a huge greenish building the mosque jidda al haram or the grand mosque
the building had everything high marble walls domes elegant minarets that towered into the sky great arched doorways and the place swirled with activity
within the mosque stood another structure the cube like building toward which i had turned in prayer for twenty years
i put my sandals in a plastic bag and entered the grand mosque passing through bab al saalem the gate of peace
and finally dead ahead i saw the kaaba
it stood more than four stories tall a granite shadow in the middle of the courtyard
around the kaaba flowed a great mass a river in perpetual motion around an island humanity in every conceivable hue shape and size
wives latched onto husbands' clothes and trudged behind them the old and feeble were carted in wooden litters carried aloft by africans who managed to navigate the crowd faster than anyone else
the crowd was thickest at the corner of the kaaba where a black stone was fixed in a silver bezel
pilgrims struggled to kiss the stone as muhammad had and some people were handed overhead until they reached the stone kissed it then floated away toward the crowd's periphery
when prayer time rolled in the whole crowd stopped in its tracks
we lined up in row after row of concentric circles
as one body we prayed standing touching our knees kneeling pressing our foreheads to the ground two million souls in a single movement
when we kneeled not a peep was heard
i then understood how i could feel alone with allah amid a vast crowd
after the millions of pilgrims finish praying they begin the most grueling rituals of the hadj
they walk or jog between two hills on the outskirts of mecca going back and forth seven times to symbolize the story of how abraham's second wife hagar searched desperately between these same hills for water
and then the throngs gradually make their way some on foot many by bus caravans to an open field and every pilgrim spends the night there praying and searching for seventy pebbles which they store in plain white cloth bags
every year the saudi government trucks in millions of recycled pebbles to make sure the pilgrims can find enough to prepare them for the next ritual
chicago writer lalei baktiar
a sense of wonder overcomes me
here there are no tents signs walls doors or ceilings
i am not able to recognize anyone or find my caravan
it is useless to try to do so in the darkness of the night among two million people who all look alike
anonymous crowds of us flock together participating in this dress rehearsal for the day of judgment when everyone will arise wearing the same white cloth with which they are buried which is similar to the dress i am wearing this day
along with all the others i gather seventy pebbles smooth polished round smaller than a walnut and larger than a pistachio trying to catch some sleep as we prepare for tomorrow's stoning of the three idols each symbolizing a satanic temptation of abraham to sacrifice his child
finally the dawn comes and we all move for the stoning of satan
i reach the three cement like pillars symbolizing the three temptations stones in hand
i throw seven stones and hit the third idol symbolizing victory over my satanic temptations
i now realize that i will only become free as a human being when i have destroyed all idols cleaned out my house of self from all that distracts me from the creator
with this realization i can now honestly announce victory by offering a sacrifice to god
i was completely drained
i had been awake for nearly thirty hours
i had endured the heat and the pushing and shoving of hundreds of thousands of anxious pilgrims who were still chanting la bak allah homa la bak here i come allah here i come it was at this point that a member of the group cut a lock of hair from my head
some of the other pilgrims had their heads completely shaven which symbolized the end of haram
it was a very emotional time
there was lots of crying and so many people came up and hugged me
there was just this tremendous happiness that we had finally completed the hadj
the next day was edil attah the feast marking the end of the pilgrimage
on that day pilgrims sacrifice an animal in the example of abraham who had been willing to sacrifice his own son because god had asked him to
today the actual slaughtering is done by the government which distributes the food to poor muslims around the world
i think the hadj was one of the most grueling physical tests i've ever experienced and so the question is why do muslims do it
i think the answer is you do it because allah asks you to
it's an act of love
on my last day in mecca i made the required farewell visit to the grand mosque and once again circled the kaaba
as i walked away i turned and took one last look at its gleaming gray walls and i watched the pilgrims still struggling for a place inside still chanting la bak allah homa la bak la bak allah homa la bak here i come o. god here i come
idris dias is an attorney based in washington d. c.
today marks the final day of this year's pilgrimage to mecca
and for this evening that's all things considered
wendy wasserstein do you still get a chill in that moment between when the chandeliers dim and the curtain goes up
i do actually
that's my favorite time when it gets dark and then there's the overture and then there's that anticipation and you know you're in a theater and you know you're there with this group of people and your eyes stop wandering to the ceiling and to the sides
yeah i find that thrilling
i do
really
you're giving me goose bumps just talking about that feeling
yeah
we used to call it magic time it's magic time
it is magic time
i love curtains too
i love when they rise
you just think wow
something's coming something good
something yeah
exactly
your first musical that you saw was my fair lady right
yes it was
yeah
who was in the cast
i think julie andrews and rex harrison
oh original company
original company yeah
how old were you
oh gosh
maybe seven or eight
really
something like that yeah
but i went to a lot of broadway shows growing up because i grew up in new york
and so i used to take dancing classes every saturday at the june taylor school of dance
june taylor
yeah the dancers from the jackie gleason show
and then my mom and dad would pick me up
they loved shows so they used to take me to matinees
did you go to the russian tea room for lunch
i did go to the russian tea room and always upset my mother because i'd order tuna fish
but i mean i also liked schraft's and the automat too
oh sure
but i you know when i grew up the russian tea room was this place where agents from i. c. n. you know fancy agents like sam coat and arlene donovan would take you to the russian tea room
and to me of course it was you know my mother before a broadway musical
and no dancer named barysh nureyev jinsky j'ette'ed over the dining room
number
no but i wish he did
yeah
well you write a scene like that in your new book pamela's first musical
when you went to musicals as a kid did you go home and then try to act out all the parts
you know what i would do i would either very much like the character in this play go home and try to imagine my own musical
or my favorite thing was because i'm the youngest of four kids and my oldest sister had a lot of show albums so i would listen to the original cast album and try to figure out what the musical looked like
and i can very much remember listening to south pacific and that lyric about you've got to be taught before it's too late before you are six or seven or eight and i remember being seven and thinking i've got a year left
i have to learn this
but i still remember like i would know the entire score of the boyfriend which i've never seen
so but i would imagine you know what it what it possibly looked like
for me it was the l. p. of west side story and in front of the mirror a boy like that would kill your brother you know growing up in massachusetts
west side story still gives me chills
there's this wonderful performance at the city ballet that does the dances of west side story
oh right
and the energy of this and the music of it it's like the ultimate of an american art form
it's just thrilling
i was sitting there with nick heitner the director of the madness of king george and we were both sort of weeping at the end of it because it was so great
especially you're right that album when the original overture comes out and they come dancing out and their arms are in alignment and it's just so powerful
you now you're a pulitzer prize winning playwright done a lot of work in the theater and you wrote one musical right
yes i did
made miami
yes miami
the late belated miami
came it went
yeah we did it just as a workshop at playwrights horizons
i wrote it with jack feldman and bruce sussman who wrote lola at the copacabana for barry manilow who were the perfect people to write miami with
it was about miami in nineteen fifty nine and about a family that goes down there
and there were wonderful lyrics in that show
there was something about everybody into the pool but it didn't it was you know musicals are very very hard to do
they're different than plays
they're like assembling an army in a way
the other thing is everyone has an opinion about a musical
there were many deans of the american musical theater
and those who have the institutional history and those who are still trying to break the boundaries of the genre
was this book this children's book that you've written the chance for you to really put on a show without the financial risk without the critical risk
yeah in a way
we just stuffed everything into the show that they're going to see
i mean there's south pacific there's phantom there's the king and i there's jelly's last jam
but i think more it was you know it reminded me of that children's game hot potato that we just wanted to pass it on to the next generation
i think if you asked a lot of theater artists my age you know why they went into the theater even if they you know never wrote a musical it was because they saw a musical or they remember it
and it's not necessarily broadway i think it can be you know anywhere
this is a story of pamela and her aunt louise
and aunt louise takes pamela to see the prince of broadway at the forty fifth street theater
they have lunch at the russian tea room beforehand
and this is based pretty much on a true story of yours
you took your niece to see a musical
yes uh huh
which one was that
well actually i've taken i have nine nieces and nephews so it was sort of an amalgamation of which musical i took her to
all of the ones that you've been to see
all of the ones yeah
o. k.
let's run through let's give credit where credit is due before we hear about this
the prince of broadway is produced by
mr. bernie s. jerry of the bernie s. jerry producing organization
and directed by
mr. hal hitner
music by
well it's betty and sy songheim well mr. finsical william finsical did the music and betty and sy songheim did the book and lyrics
and betty songheim has as you point out perfect bangs
yes she does
and the musical stars
nathan heinz kleins and mary ethel bernadette
with supported cast member
chita
all right
i've opened the book to the page where the overture is about to start
let me point out though that when the scene when pamela and louise arrive at the forty fifth street theater it is an explosion of yellows and purples and reds and everything that broadway is about and i want you to tell us a little bit about the artist who created it
oh this is andrew jackness drew this and andy and i went to yale drama school together like twenty five years ago
and we both grew up in new york
and andy's a wonderful set designer
he designed my play isn't it romantic
and we started talking about this then
that goes back ten years too
and andy has also designed films
he designed reckless recently
and he's now designing the new oddly enough this book is like foreshadowing andy is designing the new andrew lloyd weber musical whistle down the wind
but what's great is when i love what's playing on broadway when they get there because the other shows that are playing are sunrise sunset boulevard and kathleen battle weary in women in denial and les musicable
and the prince of broadway is winner of seventeen tony awards and the new york times says this is the best show you'll ever see and then the only name we didn't change is it says i loved it john simon
which i feel is the final note of this show
now the overture is started and one note andrew drew the pictures listening to broadway overtures
yes he did
o. k.
the overture is about to start and magic time
the red velvet curtain began to rise
at least fifty dancers in pink and yellow spangled dresses came spinning onto the stage
they were followed by at least fifty men in top hats dancing with umbrellas
but there was one man named billy who danced so well that everyone stopped to watch
everyone except for a pretty blond singer named ginger
ginger just couldn't help tapping her feet
suddenly billy took ginger's hand and they were dancing together as if they had been dancing together forever
billy asked ginger if she'd like to go to the circus
you bet ginger smiled
immediately the lights changed and now on stage was an entire circus
there were trapeze artists clowns a ferris wheel dancing cats and a red headed girl pamela's age doing acrobatic tricks
even though pamela had always hated gymnastics at that moment she knew she'd give anything to be that red headed girl
when billy asked ginger if she'd like a soda the entire circus turned around and on the other side was a diner with a soda fountain and a very funny waitress named chita
we've got chocolate double dutch chocolate and special for you kids triple dutch chocolate she smiled at them
billy and ginger shared a triple dutch chocolate float and then waltzed around the diner as if it was a ballroom
they were falling in love
pamela checked her playbill for the real names of the actors because she wanted to see every play they were in from now on
the actor who played billy was nathan heinz kleins and ginger was mary ethel bernadette
billy sang pamela's favorite song from the overture as he strolled ginger home from the diner
when he sang he opened his mouth extra wide and pamela could see that he didn't have a single cavity
the lovers vowed to meet tomorrow and every other tomorrow
moments after billy and ginger parted however he was stopped by soldiers
war has been declared the captain said saluting billy
we must all leave early tomorrow to fight an under cover mission
you can tell no one pamela took a deep breath and put a finger over her mouth
don't worry aunt louise took pamela's hand
this is a musical
and without giving anything away it has a happy ending
oh well it's a musical
now aunt pamela had to pay a lot of money to go and see the prince of broadway
you really can't get a good seat for under forty bucks these days
how can you duplicate the experience without spending all that money
i think i mean for myself there i mean there's always touring shows
there's community theater and then my favorite thing there's plays in high schools
high school plays i saw the heidi chronicles recently at the burilly school the eight grade production
of your prize winning play
of my prize winning play and not only that it was all girls with the girls playing boys
and it starred mary gordon the novelist's daughter as heidi
but you know the thing about kids doing a play is at the end they jump up and down they're thrilled
it's very there is an energy and a joy to it that frankly when you grow up and do real musicals if you lose that energy and joy actors do a great many exercises in order to find that
pamela gets to go to the ballet next
yes
pamela's going off to the ballet
she might be in the ballet
that's what we're thinking
and aunt louise might be in the audience
but pamela may well be pirouetting her way around connecticut
and for wendy wasserstein's next production
i have a new play that's going to be a workshop at the seattle rep where i've worked before and then it'll be a lincoln center in new york next year
and you can give its name if you want
oh yes
it's called an american daughter good solid title
and do you want to give us a hint about what it might be about
it's actually a play that takes place in washington
it's a political play
it's been fun doing pamela because it's such a bright and happy thing
and my new play is a little darker than my other plays
it's a little bit close to the heidi chronicles but it's a bit darker
wendy wasserstein
her book is called pamela's first musical and it's published by hyperion
she joined us in our washington studio
thanks for coming in
oh thank you so much
thanks
this is n. p. r.'s weekend edition
i'm liane hansen
this is curt frederickson renton washington listening to k. p. l. u. and k. u. o. w.
now your comments
during your interview with british ambassador sir john kerr i was struck by his repeated emphasis on the idea of honoring the wishes of the majority in northern ireland
that's a fine idea but it overlooks the fact that northern ireland by the arbitrary drawing of the border with the irish republic was custom designed by the british to have a unionist majority so references to the need to honor the wishes of this artificially created majority would seem to be to say the least a little bit disingenuous
thank you
from mary ellen gresham in alliance ohio this letter
daniel schorr gave the f. b. i. a pretty thorough tongue lashing for leaking bits of information that allowed the wolf pack hounds to pursue david kaczynski to his home howl at the door day after day photograph the anguished face of his mother and his face behind the wheel of his car mrs. gresham continues i find mr. schorr's self righteous buck passing to the f. b. i. unethical
is he primarily interested in absolving reporters of blame for their lack of common decency and compassion for david kaczynski who undoubtedly saved the lives of innocent persons
i hope not
however e. mail from professor leon gordonkur at the center of international studies at princeton to daniel schorr begins bravo for your commentary on the treatment of david kaczynski by the information media and the f. b. i.
nothing could be more discouraging to a socially minded person than this intrusive hysteria
and from eileen stubbs ellingham in seattle thank you mr. schorr
until now i believed i was alone in recognizing the surrealism in today's real life television
could it be our american expectation to be entertained and our american desire to be the entertainer drive this absurd engine
is anyone paying any attention anyway or are we just waiting for a commercial to get a snack
about our performance chat with pianist michael haberman about the composer sorabji david wright in new york city writes at this rate you guys are going to single handedly bring back music appreciation
and from robert els from in van salem pennsylvania who can now track down the source of our in his words refreshing and unusual musical snippets between stories on the weekend edition home page
a question who on your staff has the time to listen to all those recordings and select the right track
i picture a guy with c. d.s stacked like pancakes auditioning each one for a few seconds
nope click
nope click well mr. els you got it in one
our director is charged with that job and you will hear his choice after i give out our address
to find our home page go to w. w. w. n. p. r. dot org click on news and cultural programming and you will see weekend edition sunday
e. mail to us should be addressed to wesun n. p. r. dot org
letters go to six hundred thirty five massachusetts avenue n. w. washington d. c. two zero zero zero one
and to record a brief comment for possible air dial two oh two three seven one one seven seven five
you're listening to weekend edition
here in washington some of us don't know from hip
if you really want hip you have to go to manhattan or l. a. or according to essayist mike fisch iowa
a friend and i went out for italian food at this place in iowa city
the restaurant was sleek and modern with abstract paintings and the furniture reminded me of the kind you see in somebody's apartment who wishes he was from berlin everything black and shiny and angled jaunty and somehow stiffly pragmatic like the kind of hip glasses german exchange students usually wear
the waiter came up to us and said have you ever eaten here before maybe it was because of the way we were dressed
then he laid down a basket of bread and a shallow bowl of olive oil with grated parmesan cheese at the bottom
pointing to the olive oil he said that's for dipping like we were going to chug the green oil down like soup
it seems like when iowans try to be cutting edge they have to be more aggressive about it than hip people in new york
in new york if you act sophisticatedly bored other new yorkers assume that you've taken so many drugs slept with so many people and know the names of so many cutting edge bands that excitement is simply beyond you
show a hip new yorker an unimpressed frenchman smoking a hand rolled cigarette eyes half shut in ennui and the new yorker sees a role model
the average iowan sees a guy who needs to take a nap
this makes ennui a difficult proposition for iowans
of course midwesterners don't have as many good reasons to become world weary
in new york city instead of your normal cable access programs about zoning or making the most of your local library they've got a show called sick and wrong which shows videos of autopsies or couples dressed like vampires doing weird things to each other with dental floss
even the hippest iowan would see a show like sick and wrong and be thoroughly repulsed whereas a hip new yorker would be like that old vampire floss thing is like so done
one problem with jaded new yorkers is that they have so little left to imagine
maybe a few of them dream of a farm in the midwest someplace with good old fashioned iowa style boredom where people's wildest and darkest fantasies hardly ever come true
regardless somewhere in iowa today there is a farmer's daughter stifled by the conformity of the local high school dreaming of a big city where she can dress or think however she wants and no one will even care
she will spend her morning dreaming of ennui
mike fisch has since departed his beloved iowa for bowling green state university in ohio
this is weekend edition i'm liane hansen and these were some of the voices in the news this past week
it's reduction in spending of twenty three billion dollars thirty billion dollars less than the president requested and we're pleased that he signed on is going to sign the bill and help us reduce federal spending
but when the leadership of congress insists on going it alone one party alone we get gridlock stalemate vetoes government shutdowns
instead of increasing the minimum wage which will destroy jobs we propose to increase the take home pay for low income parents and children with our support credit
people who work forty hours a week fifty two weeks a year should not be forced to raise a family on eight thousand five hundred dollars a year
it is not a time to engage in rhetoric that favors one side or the other
on the contrary it only diverts attention from the acts of terrorists who have exploited the complex situation in south lebanon to target israeli civilians and obstruct the peace process
is it forbidden that our country rise from the ashes
by what logic are we deprived of the right to uphold our sovereignty and our territorial integrity while israel has the right to acquire nuclear weapons and refuses to sign the nuclear non proliferation treaty
in them we preserve for a future generation of tennesseans a glimpse of what life is like for us in nineteen ninety six what we valued what held our interests what dreams we hold for the future
and now let us make history for tennessee
counties bury your time capsule
and joining us to discuss the news this past week are doyle mcmanus of the los angeles times
welcome back doyle
hi liane
and in our new york bureau david corn of the nation magazine
hi david
good to be with you
let's start with oh the budget
we may as well since a deal was actually reached this past week
the president and congress finally got it together
both sides are claiming victory
what do you think the voters are going to remember in november
doyle do you want to start us
yeah
i think the two sides are clearly going to fight about what the voters should remember between now and november
the republicans are going to say as they already are we won on the big point
we turned the course of government spending around
this budget spends less than we used to before president clinton is going to say but wait a minute i drew the line
i stopped them from cutting education i stopped them from cutting the environment i stopped them from reshaping medicare the way they wanted to do it so you have two stories competing with each other
david
in politics unfortunately i think that what you do is often less important than how you do it and so i agree with doyle
what you're going to see is that the republicans did win the big fight
they got the president to agree to more or less a balanced budget framework and severe cuts in social programs although he did manage to preserve some programs that he himself favors but they did it in such a manner that they came across looking petulant and extreme and they are not going to win any political points for having shut down the government and having thrown the temper tantrum that they threw earlier in the year and at the end of last year
i think that ultimately the whole budget battle that has been resolved now is going to be forgotten by the time the november elections rolls around at which time we'll be in the midst of another budget battle
so it wasn't worth holding the government hostage all these months
in some ways it sort of worked in terms of substance
they did get severe cuts but it didn't help them politically
mm
care to comment on the timing i mean why it happened now
the republicans desperately need to get their campaign going whether it's bob dole's presidential campaign which looks dead in the water or the congressional campaign
here's the problem
they were winning on substance here
they actually were getting a smaller budget but they were losing on politics every day this dragged on
they were losing on appearance so they needed to change the subject
not to change the subject away from the budget
they're going to keep talking about a balanced budget because that's their core ideology and it's a good selling point with voters but they needed to get off this particular deal
it was bringing them nothing but trouble
mm
david i want to go back to a subject that we talked about two weeks ago
when fred barnes was here we were talking about the kennedy kassebaum health bill in the senate and now that it's passed unanimously the house already has passed its version of health care
the two are going to work out a compromise as with the budget bill
what do you think about the timing of the passage of this one david
well i think here you see the republicans in particular deciding we can't fight health care reform any longer we must do something
otherwise they were vulnerable to the type of democratic attack that we've seen with the minimum wage
unfortunately what they decided to do was to go for reform which is very very modest reform won't affect most americans and will only help some of those out there with health care insurance problems and it's not a done deal
there are several poison pills in both the house and senate measures that may bring this crashing to the ground
it's just it's ironic that the republicans who a year or two ago was claiming there's no health care crisis all of a sudden found religion entering a presidential campaign on this subject
one way they found religion was by reading the polls
it is striking that if you go out and ask americans what are you worried about
what are the problems facing the country health care is either at the top of the list or very close to it and just this week one of the physicians' groups released new figures that show that that old number that bill and hillary clinton used to talk about the number of americans who are uninsured who have no health insurance at all has gone up from thirty seven million to forty two million
it's about fifteen percent of the population
and it's important to remember that this health care reform bill will not address most of those
mm
well what will the compromise bill look like do you think and will it be a bill that the president will sign
i think there's a very strong chance that we may not see a compromise bill
the house and the business community are going to fight against the senate provision which gives parity between mental illness and other diseases and the senate now has to deal with this issue of medical savings accounts m. s. a.s which are a sock to at least one big republican contributor the golden rule company and is going to threaten to divide the health care system into a two tier system
these are both highly contentious issues and it's hard to see at this point an easy compromise
mm
another issue that has an enormous amount of public support at this moment is term limits and they were discussed on capitol hill this past week
the action was blocked by the democrats but the republicans plan to take it to the november election
isn't it politically risky for the democrats to take this stand at this time
it sure is and it plays right into that populist vein that ross perot hearkened to that bill clinton and al gore tried to summon up
one question we don't know the answer to is do the voters feel as strongly about term limits now after they pitched the democratic majority out of power in the house they may pitch the republicans out of power in the house as well now that incumbency doesn't look like such an advantage
maybe term limits aren't so important anymore
one quick question about something that is happening today
the president will be videotaping his deposition in the whitewater case
now it's not the first time a president has given testimony in a criminal case but the white house has been putting out signs that it really fears that the testimony could be abused for political gain
should the administration be worried
i think they should
it really boils down to this liane
you're going to have a picture of the president of the united states raising his hand and taking the oath in what will look like a criminal trial because it is and a good television commercial producer can take that four second clip and make it look nasty make it look conspiratorial and if i were in bill clinton's shoes i'd be trying to do the same thing
well how are they going to get it
oh a piece of videotape these days this image is going to be satellited from washington down to the courthouse in arkansas
it's going to be up in the air somewhere
somebody's going to try his best to grab it out of there
did he
it should be
go ahead
and we'll see it on the internet as well
it should be pouched if they're going to do it and they should use better security than they have for most of the memos that come out of the white house that end up making it on to the front pages of the washington post
ah so everybody with satellite dishes that can take down dirty feeds will be privileged to this testimony
you can just see what you just know what the rush limbaugh show or even jay leno would do with a tape like that
mm
this past week there was an observance that's been held for several years now take our daughters to work day and there's been some controversy over it
some people ask why we do this in the first place others say why can't our sons go to work
ms. magazine and the foundation that started take our daughters to work day is actually proposing now a sons' day on a sunday in october
now david i know you have no children right
not yet
not yet
and doyle you have three daughters
what about you
did any of your daughters go to work with you this week
not this week they have in the past
i think taking your daughters to work is a swell idea but to tell you the truth i don't like giving them a day off of school for doing it
they get nearly three months of summer vacation
i'm going to take each of my daughters to work in turn on one of those days in the summer
well i'll tell you what i did
i brought my daughter actually to work last year as part of a program they already had set up in the high school
you could actually shadow a professional for a day and you know get a day off school and they came and watched me and i said to casey casey do you want to come to work with me this week she goes mom i've been to your office and it's boring so i think that was the judgment on that
but we'll see what happens with this
i think it's a good idea that kids get to see what their parents do for a living
let me say thank you to two folks that talk to us for a living david corn of the the nation magazine joins us from our new york bureau
thanks a lot david
thank you liane
and doyle mcmanus of the los angeles times
again thank you
thank you
republican presidential nominee to be bob dole campaigned in indiana yesterday hoping to end a week filled with inter party bickering on an up note
president clinton also did some campaign style talking both in his saturday radio address and in a speech to the national association of realtors
in the last presidential election there was a sign on the walls of the clinton campaign offices that gained a certain fame
the reminder read it's the economy stupid the president's recent emphasis on raising the minimum wage shows the old campaign theme is alive and well in nineteen ninety six but as n. p. r.'s jon greenberg reports there is a twist
thank you
thank you very much
as he spoke at the convention of the national association of realtors in washington president clinton was engaged in the critical task of carving out his niche in the political landscape
pocketbook issues figured prominently as they should before a group of sales people but this year he infused the pocketbook issues with a higher meaning
mr. clinton began a bread and butter economic policy speech with a paen to democracy
note here how he focused on the future not the future of america but of russia
and i was there still watching this very great country with its rich and profound history essentially still in the process of defining what it wishes to be in the twenty first century and it struck me so clearly there that giving people a piece of the country for themselves whether it was in the private ownership of a building private ownership of a farm private ownership of a home private ownership of a business that is the key to making everybody feel that they can really win even if their side doesn't win every election or if every issue doesn't go their way
when the president ran in ninety two he could blame the country's economic problems on an incumbent republican
today he praises and claims credit for the measurable progress of low inflation low unemployment and high job growth but he still faces widespread economic insecurity
mr. clinton turned to that in a style designed to identify himself with the plight of thousands of workers
and there will be a lot of people that look me fifty year old white guys that'll be being downsized at big companies just when they're trying to send their kids to college and they won't know what to do and how to get another job paying anything like what they were making
mr. clinton insisted that these most personal problems actually stem from forces that reach far beyond america's borders like global trade
in his view this gives government a key role because solving individual problems becomes part of how the entire nation adapts
of course the president's opponents challenge him on that point
the president tried to position himself as a politician who is in the fray but somehow above the fray
mr. clinton tempered his remarks before this crowd but still chided those republicans who he said would rather gain short term political advantage at the expense of the public interest
he argued a genuine compassionate balanced budget plan can be achieved
but we cannot do it in the old highly intensely partisan ways that is doomed to failure because we are moving into an new era
we have to break new ground
we have to be willing to give up on some of the things that we used to hold on to and grab onto each other and work together and solve these problems
and we have to be animated by a division we have of what we want america to look like
and so the president ended his speech where he began in the future and in the course of his talk he elevated personal economic interest to the common interest
this is jon greenberg in washington
why is janet reno different from the seventy six attorneys general who preceded her
well obviously she is not a man but she also is not the president's personal lawyer or relative she has never been the head of a political party nor a campaign manager
but like her predecessors janet reno was appointed by the president confirmed by the senate and serves as a member of the cabinet
whether the differences or similarities will hold sway while she guides the most powerful institution known as the justice department is a question we pose now to david burnham
he is a veteran investigative reporter whose new book is called above the law secret deals political fixes and other misadventures of the justice department
take a look at janet reno's tenure so far three years into the clinton administration
has she made a difference
i don't think she's made very much difference
i think president clinton did a disservice to her by appointing her in a way because she was she doesn't she did not know washington she had no political sort of base she had no connections with clinton and so she comes in and she's put in charge of a very large independent bureaucracy the ninety u. s. attorneys out beyond the beltway all the investigative agencies and i think more than many attorney generals she is quite powerless and i think it's mr. clinton's fault because to run the justice department you need a very strong person with a great deal of knowledge
what has gone on in the justice department is the f. b. i. has grown more powerful the number of assistant u. s. attorneys keeps growing the clinton administration is seeking more surveillance power
it has just gotten in the terrorism bill more power to throw people who are alleged terrorists out of the country and all of this so that there is sort of a disconnect in my view between the attorney general who i think is a very decent well meaning woman and the reality of this very powerful bureaucracy that is going on and keeping pushing and is in step in a way with the political pressures of today to increase the power of the justice department
mm
there are some very high profile cases going on right now
we have the trial of the oklahoma bombing suspect
we also have the unabomber or the suspected unabomber in custody but there have been leaks in the case which the f. b. i. is investigating
what do you think the potential is for this current justice department given what you've said about janet reno perhaps not being the best person to guide it the potential for the department with all the forces at its command to do the right thing in these cases and would the public be with the justice department in these cases
the f. b. i. has got their man now apparently but as you said there have been all these leaks
i did not hear this but i understand that recently attorney general reno was asked about all of the leaks and as i say i didn't hear it so i understand she sort of shrugged her shoulders and said well i don't control the f. b. i.
but she does control the f. b. i.
she does in name on law and that is a problem
and the f. b. i. you know is determined to improve its reputation
it's got the waco problem it's got the ruby ridge problem it's got these bad things that mr. freeh doesn't like and now they've got a man that you know it's a big case for them and they want to brag about it
but it is political
the justice department is much much more political than we like to acknowledge
we like to think about this law and a man or person violates the law he is charged she is charged and that's that
what i see is that we give these bureaucracies huge discretion to choose and act and we have to do that because we can't write a law book that's big enough it would be twenty million pages long if we didn't have discretion
but what we don't do what the public doesn't do and what the press doesn't do what radio doesn't do is we don't examine that discretion and unexamined discretion is an invitation to trouble
the anti terrorism bill that just passed you are disheartened by the fact that it provides for the deportation of alien terrorists without letting them know what classified evidence has been gathered against them but on the other hand the bill doesn't have that enhanced surveillance and wire tapping provisions
now this since you do write about surveillance and the fact that we are being looked and listened to more times than we would care to imagine this do you think is a good thing then
i do
i mean there was a very hard effort made by a small group of people interested in civil liberties combined with interestingly some conservative sort of libertarian people in congress and the combination from the left and the right managed to kill the f. b. i.'s effort to expand its surveillance powers and i think this is a good thing
did they need to be cut back
do they have too many
well i'm not sure we'd want to cut them back
i'd like to have them much more public
i mean there is a law that requires every wire tap there's a public recording of those wire taps and it becomes public and you can sort of keep track of what the government's doing on wire taps but there's a lot of other kinds of electronic surveillance that the f. b. i. and the other federal investigators don't have to report they don't have to make public like the collection of your long distance telephone records
the f. b. i. does this just massively
it's a little creepy
i mean it may be well intentioned but the extent to which they are looking into everyone's lives the f. b. i. and the i. r. s. and the d. e. a. have developed a massive computerized list of every individual living in america maybe your voting records your stuff about your driving record some stuff about your credit records and they did this in a very secret way and if you ask them they will say oh law enforcement but there's a lot of surveillance going on that i think is worrisome
david burnham
he is the author of above the law secret deals political fixes and other misadventures of the u. s. department of justice
thanks a lot david
thank you
president clinton videotapes his testimony today for the arkansas trial of his former whitewater partners jim and susan mcdougal
the trial has brought to light numerous associations friendships and a tangled web of financial transactions
n. p. r. senior news analyst daniel schorr has one more intriguing story to add to the list
i hope you will explain me said sam dash and i said i would try
never in the twenty three years i've known him have i seen the one time philadelphia prosecutor the senate watergate chief counsel who helped to bring down president nixon seem so much on the defensive even while denying that he's on the defensive
sam dash georgetown professor is an authority on legal ethics and helped to frame the post watergate statute creating the office of special prosecutor
it seemed natural therefore that when whitewater prosecutor kenneth starr wanted a consultant on ethics he hired professor dash
starr recently came under press attack charging him with conflict of interest in continuing a flourishing private practice for clients some of whom like the tobacco industry are dedicated to opposing president clinton
sam dash who is a compulsive explainer has spent a lot of time explaining the integrity of prosecutor starr
well sort of explaining
for example he told one reporter that what starr is doing is proper but it does have an odor to it
then he explained to another reporter that he meant to say that not he but others might detect an odor
and that led lloyd grove of the washington post to ask sarcastically whether dash was recusing his own sense of smell
so now dash has become an issue along with starr having to face questions from the press about whether he's allowing his prodigious reputation to be used as a shield for the prosecutor
he finds himself having to explain that the three thousand two hundred dollars a week he is paid is a normal lawyer's fee and would be a lot more if he billed for all the extra hours he puts in
an authority on ethics who has taught and testified in court about ethics dash has trouble understanding how his ethics can be questioned
i know he says it's this business of perception but i know how i see myself and i comply with my own standards
at thirty one i'd be very upset about all this at seventy one i'm relaxed
i'm not worried about the perception of others but then he goes on talking some more about how he was misquoted here and misrepresented there and how a reporter would turn into an interview his efforts to explain why he didn't want to give an interview and next we're reminiscing about what he sees as the glory days of the senate watergate investigation next to which the whitewater investigation pales
next month dash will be going to heidelberg university law school in germany as an exchange professor for the summer session
he hastens to explain that this was arranged before he went to work for the independent counsel but it is not clear that he'll be returning to the job
if ken starr asks him he'll consider it which means that it's not automatic
so how to explain my friend sam dash
pure at heart as he sees himself and unwilling to believe that anyone would use him or his reputation
this is daniel schorr
you are listening to weekend edition
entertainment weekly reports that one of the hotter new trends in hollywood is taking pulp comic book characters and bringing them to the big screen
weekend edition cultural commentator stephen stark
this week brings a movie based on the dark horse comics character barb wire and in june the phantom starring billy zane hits theaters
in production is men in black the title of a malibu comic and there's talk of movies featuring wonder woman sandman blade the vampire slayer and one based on the x. men comic
actually hollywood has been down this road before and not simply with batman superman or last year's judge dredd
this is the industry after all which has brought spiderman captain america tank girl and yes even howard the duck to a theater near you
yet what's interesting is that aside from the superman and batman successes and batman the movies often bore little resemblance to batman the comic comic book characters haven't done that well at the movies
in contrast many movies about comic strip characters have been successful perhaps because they're often funny not dark and because their characters often become better developed over time
blondie alone inspired a twenty seven film series between nineteen thirty eight and nineteen fifty one and l'il abner and dick tracy have inspired saleable movies too
so why are things different now
well films about characters the audience already knows either from previous films or other media often tend to do better than those with wholly new plots
the whole business of licensing tie ins helps ensure that films about comic book characters make some dough as wonder woman becomes the latest figurine at the local burger king
not only that the whole action figure industry is built around these kinds of tie ins as are more and more video games
perhaps most important many original action films are now already a lot like comic books so transferring is easy
i ask you is arnold schwarzenegger an actor or a comic book character
true some comics are now quite sophisticated but the bottom line is that audiences and films have become so dumbed down that books may be too complicated to remain the best source of material any longer
one might argue that the whole swing to jane austen this year contradicts this trend but for all we know the people in hollywood heard about austen from the classic comic books of yore not the novels
so goes pop culture in the nineties
stephen stark comments regularly on popular culture for weekend edition
this is weekend edition i'm liane hansen and joining us is puzzle master will shortz
hi will
hi liane
how are you doing
fine how about yourself
just fine thank you very much
would you repeat the clue we had last week
it was a quite difficult challenge
yes i said draw nine vertical lines on a piece of paper i said about an inch tall and spaced out about an inch apart and i asked can you now add ten horizontal lines to complete a common english word
what is it
michael erickson sent in a full poem basically asking us why are we up so early and how do we get our brains to work so much
and there was one other entry it was not one word but he said it's not the effete little filth hill filet thief is it
that's cute
isn't that good
that's dick oakland
what was that answer
fiftieth
fiftieth
a lot of people got about fifty tries in order to get that word
we received about three hundred fifty entries and our winner is esther russell and she lives in tracy city tennessee
hi esther
good morning
how long did it take you to find this answer
i worked on it off and on
i would put it down and then all of a sudden it came to me like a light turned on
wow
and what do you do there in tracy city tennessee
oh my son and his wife have a hand blown glass works mountain lake glass works and i'm an artist and working with them
wow
nice work if you can get it esther
all right
well you can take time out today to play our puzzle
oh great
all right well i think we're ready to play
will you ready for us
all right
esther every answer today is a familiar two word phrase in which each word starts with the letter h. for example if i gave you the clue farm helper you would say hired hand
all right
all right number one
women's dressy shoes
handsome haberdashery
that's interesting but no this will be a familiar phrase and these are dressy shoes you'll wear when you go out
do you know liane
i do with this one and not pretty pumps but high heels
high heels
high heels is correct
of course yes
it's always the simple ones that'll drive you crazy esther
all right try this
number two former cornball variety t. v. show
hee haw
hee haw is correct
expression of approval as of a speech
as of a speech
right and i'll give you a hint it's the same word twice
expression of approval as of a speech
this is a phrase we'll hear in the british parliament a lot right will
yes yes
maybe i'll help you out esther
do
here here
here here
here here
thank you
no problem
it is correct
how about a scary part of an amusement park
it's where you'll see ghosts and hear creaks and groans and see mirrors
hall
uh huh
haunted house of course
haunted house is correct
of course
you got it
what a construction worker wears on his head
helmet
hard hat
hard hat is correct
about the time we finish this i'll get into the swing of it
in silent night they sing hallelujah
herald hark
number
in the christmas carol silent night they sing hallelujah
boy boy
do you know liane
i'm getting nice and cool here thinking about christmas
heavenly hosts
hosts yes
heavenly hosts is correct
sailors' exclamation when lifting an anchor
heave ho
heave ho very good
what heloise offered in her newspaper column
helping hints
yes or household hints
very good
household hints
master escape artist
houdini
harry houdini
harry houdini very good
elvis presley's first hit
i'm not doing an elvis
oh i want to say hound dog oh
oh let's see h. h.
well since my baby left
i've found a new place to dwell
oh heartbreak hotel of course
yes
very good heartbreak hotel how about supreme happiness in slang
supreme happiness
in slang
a slang term
or it's where miss piggy will go when she dies
oh hog heaven
hog heaven is correct
i like the second hint
and your last answer has three words all starting h. a popular cheer
let's see a popular cheer
hip hip hooray
that is correct
hip hip hooray esther
oh goodness
here we would say the blind hog found an acorn
the blind hog found an acorn well esther once you got your wheels spinning you were right there
right
oh what a good time we had playing
oh that was fun
it is fun isn't it
yes
well guess what
we'll send you some stuff
you're going to get a weekend edition lapel pin and the game scategories from milton bradley and from merriam webster the collegiate dictionary tenth edition and the collegiate thesaurus
you have a choice of hardcover or c. d. rom
what's your public radio station
w. u. t. c. out of chattanooga
all right and that's esther russell in tracy city tennessee
thanks a lot for playing the game with us esther
thank you i enjoyed it
come see us
oh we will if you promise to make us some ham and red eye gravy
you bet
all right ma'am take care
thanks so much
our pleasure
bye bye
bye bye
great fun she was
all right will something for all of us now
yes
take the word coats c. o. a t. s. reverse the last two letters and you get coast which is the brand name of a deodorant soap
now take a word that means a member of the family reverse the last two letters and you get the name of a model of automobile
what is it
well when you know what it is let us know
put the answer on a postcard and send it to weekend edition sunday puzzle national public radio six hundred thirty five massachusetts avenue n. w. washington d. c. two zero zero zero one
our e. mail address for puzzle entries is puzzle n. p. r. dot org
the deadline for entries is the close of business thursday
please include your work and home telephone numbers
we'll call you if you're the winner and you'll play puzzle on the air with the puzzle editor of the new york times and weekend edition's puzzle master will shortz
a lot of fun today will thanks a lot
thanks liane
this is weekend edition i'm liane hansen
after more than two weeks of fighting israel and hezbollah guerrillas have agreed to a ceasefire
it went into effect yesterday morning
among the conditions of the agreement is the removal of civilians from the line of fire
both sides said they would try to limit future skirmishes to military targets
the ceasefire was not the only news out of the middle east this week
here to discuss all of it is marvin zonis
he is a psychologist specializing in middle eastern studies at the university of chicago
welcome
thank you
now as the secretary of state warren christopher said a ceasefire agreement is not a peace agreement
it is more a prelude to a peace agreement
do you think that this ceasefire agreement can actually be the basis of real negotiation
i do think it's a step in that direction the main reason being not so much the accord itself as much as the fact that syria is running out of cards to play and syria does not want to get left out of the new arrangements in the middle east
now tell us a little bit about president assad's role in all of this
he is not part of this ceasefire agreement
well you know president assad is really one of the most astounding people in the world because he's taken a country of fourteen million people with very limited natural resources and very low levels of human capital and made that country syria into really one of the most crucial countries
you can't do anything in the world if you don't call president assad
so that's a remarkable contribution that he's made to his country even though it's been at the expense of peace in the middle east
people have said this past week that he is a man that is very interested in the peace process but really not that interested in peace
would you agree
well i think that he is interested in peace and the reason i think that is because he was the minister of defense of syria in nineteen sixty seven when syria lost the golan heights to israel
in some very important respect in other words he is the responsible person for syria's having lost its historical territory
i don't think he wants to die and go down in the history books of syria as the person who lost the golan heights
he has to reclaim it
he's had two major heart attacks in the last few years
this is not a man who has great longevity in front of him
i think he eventually wants to move forward and get the golan heights back
do you think he'll be able to do that
well i think so
i think so because the issue of the golan heights for israel is a very different issue from the west bank and the gaza strip primarily because there are few in israel who consider it part of the so called land of israel or greater israel
it doesn't carry with it the same biblical freight as the west bank and the gaza so it's a security question not an emotional question
on the issue of the palestinians there was a lot of movement this past week
the palestinian national council met
it eliminated the provision in their charter for the destruction of israel
now do you as many agree that this is real progress on this case
well this is a staggering progress and it's a sign of the immense credibility of yasir arafat and he has really delivered on his pledges to the late prime minister rabin
it was so important you noticed that the labor party responded by eliminating from its charter the provisions that deny the possibility of a palestinian state
so we're moving very rapidly
what were the palestinians thinking when they gave a stage to abu abbas who was the mastermind terrorist behind the achille lauro hijacking
i mean there he publicly apologized for the murder but he's someone who creates a lot of emotion in people and by including him as a major player in all of this
you know this was another part of the staggering drama of this meeting that the p. l. o. had because the palestinian national congress because not only was he there but many other terrorists hated by the israelis and in fact wanted by the israelis were given permission by israel to enter the gaza to attend this meeting
lela khaled the first of the great plane hijackers was there as well and she voted against the removal of the clause
so it was a moment of high drama and a time to settle a lot of scores between the palestinians and the israelis
there were scores settled
there were scores settled in the sense that burying this clause of the charter means an entirely new relationship between the two groups
now what happens next is always the question but of course we have an election in a month's time in israel
is everything on hold until after that election
well what i'm really worried about is that in retaliation for the israeli strike against lebanon we will have some more suicide bombers in israel
so the matter of the israeli election is far from settled because of course prime minister peres' popularity rises and falls with the state of security within israel
so i think there's a lot of drama ahead in israel before we get through those elections
i think the point of all of that is the peace process will be on hold in terms of the palestinians because the prime minister cannot take any more big risks
what happens if the ceasefire is broken
well i suspect that the ceasefire will be broken
i think that the hezbollah did not agree to end a tax on the israeli security zone in lebanon only not to attack israeli targets civilian targets within israeli
now that's a great improvement for the state of israel
it expects in other words hezbollah to continue military action against their soldiers in southern lebanon but i don't think we will see katyusha attacks in the near term against israeli villages
that would really be a disastrous scenario and i don't think they'll do it
so in your opinion progress is being made the peace process is really moving forward
i'm very optimistic about the peace process because i think what we see is that thoughtful israelis thoughtful palestinians thoughtful lebanese and syrians all understand that in the end there is no alternative to this peace process
so everybody's jocking for how it's going to come out and who's going to come out on top but the peace process itself is not in doubt
one question about what you think about the future of the palestinian state talking specifically about the west bank and its geography
i mean it would seem like geographically it's being set up to fail
it's landlocked and every time there is an incident or something goes on israel closes the west bank
is there perhaps a better geographical solution to this
well there's lots of theoretical solutions which are an improvement but realistically speaking i do think there's some way to work with the geography and its constraints
the first thing is of course that the two parts of the palestinian state need a corridor so that people from the west bank can go to gaza and from gaza to the west bank without having to ask the israelis for permission
secondly israel is free to seal its borders anytime it wants therefore the palestinian state to really be successful has to develop economic links with other countries and not only with the state of israel which is the condition of present
so really what we're talking about is that the palestinian state has to begin to take its own fate into its own hands and it has to establish economic development separate from the dependency which is has overwhelmingly now on the state of israel
since we're playing blue sky i'm going to ask you another question
what do you think the future is for jerusalem
well again there are lots of solutions to the future of jerusalem
i just read this morning about a province in india which was split into two at the time of its independence but they couldn't agree on what to do about the capital so they made the single capital the capital of both indian states
there's no reason why a vatican like arrangement could not be created in jerusalem why separate holy areas that were important to the christians important to the muslims important to the jews could be ministered by those religious communities
there is indeed no reason in the end why a single city of jerusalem could not be the capital of both states but the reality is and the reason the question is so significant is that only over the dead bodies of the jewish people is jerusalem going to be divided again and the palestinians will not let go of the dream of jerusalem's being their capital
so in the end this is the single most important question
marvin zonis is professor in the graduate school of business at the university of chicago and a specialist in middle eastern studies
thanks for coming in
thank you liane
since the ceasefire was announced the roads leading south from beirut have been clogged with refugees heading back to their homes
the damage inflicted by israeli bombs has taken its toll
in beirut electricity to homes and businesses was cut a hardship not uncommon in the city
years of living in the shadow of war have taught the lebanese people how to survive without municipal power plants and as jennifer griffin reports the hum of private generators has returned to the streets
six months ago muhammed hammedon took a gamble and bought a huge electric generator
he did it despite the government's promises that beirut's electricity supply would be resumed in december
the government made good on its promise but mr. hammedon's gamble still paid off
his generator is now working overtime in the basement of his corner shoe store in west beirut and he has collected thirty six thousand dollars from customers who tap into his power supply
i don't trust the government with this country because something happened always suddenly
for that i bought the generator and keep it here
something did happen and it was sudden
israeli war planes bombarded two of beirut's power stations as part of their quest to annihilate hezbollah guerrillas
government officials say it could be eight months until beirut's power supply is restored
mr. hammedon now wonders whether he should buy another generator
he has eighty customers and he is having to turn others away
private electricity sales have become a lifeline for beirut residents like ekrom bitar who buys electricity from a nearby hotel
she pays fifty dollars a month for five amperes of electricity which is enough to support a television and the few naked light bulbs that hang from her ceiling
mrs. bitar lives with three small children on the sixth floor of a building whose elevator no longer works due to the power cut
inside the tiny apartment buckets and pots filled with water line the cluttered entrance
without electricity the building's water pumps do not work
when the government electricity comes on for two hours each day mrs. bitar fills every pan in the house with water
her children help with the work including her son who was blinded by shrapnel during the civil war and her eight year old daughter batul
we cannot do anything
we cannot study
we cannot see anything at night
everyone feels like this feels afraid
across the street the color coded wires that hang from the hotel's electricity poles look like a spider web
hotel concierge usama abi mosla says when the civil war ended the government attempted to shut down the private mini utility companies that emerged during the war
they didn't want anyone to share electricity because they hired their own electricity the government electricity
so the government came and cut all the wires
now residents are re hanging the wires because they do not know when the government will be able to restore power to the city
at the ministry of electricity and water officials say it will cost nearly eighty million dollars to replace the transformers and even then there's no guarantee the lebanese government can protect its power supply from israeli bombs
for national public radio i'm jennifer griffin in beirut
noirin ni riain sings the ancient songs of ireland but her new c. d. celtic soul stretches both earthly and heavenly borders
traditional tunes are played on eastern instruments and members of the paul winter consort bring the old music into the modern age
you begin our journey into the celtic soul with song of the puka how do i say that in gaelic
or how do you say it in gaelic
right
this song is actually the story a legend of a fisherman
that's right
and puka are faeries
yes you could say that
the story is that this song a fisherman went out fishing one evening and fell asleep maybe after a little jorum or whatever and this music came to him as he slept and then he went home in the morning and he reached for his melodeon and he played this tune on it
so there are two theories one that is music of the underworld music of the faeries of the puka whatever the other is that it's the sound of the humpbacked whales as he slept
you write that this is a tune that came to light fairly recently by which you mean the turn of the century
how did you learn this song
i learned it from the truth somebody gave me a tape of oodolik who's one of the sources of it but i think that's the lovely thing liane about our tradition you know that these songs come to light and they are still there and it's you know you are connecting up with something which is the oldest
i mean could easily be the oldest music on the planet
many many of the songs on celtic soul are in fact songs that i learned from a man who died in nineteen seventy six palib olera and in his youth he had learned some two hundred songs oh no hundreds more but he taught me about two hundred of them
every saturday morning i would go and sit at his feet as it were and he would teach me for hours and hours and hours you know and sometimes you know he would get quite irate when i wouldn't be able to imitate him exactly and he'd say go away noirin
go away
the lesson is over for today
you were the sole recipient of many of the songs
right
that he'd collected and you had to audition for him
well yes that's a good way of putting it
i was doing my final examination when i was eighteen to go into university to do law of all things and so he came along to examine me for my music side of that examination
i was the only student in the school doing music and so he came in a rather eccentric looking man riddled with arthritis at that time and so he sidled into the room and looked at me
i was terrified of course terrified because i had to play for him play the piano
i remember i was playing the pathetique sonata by beethoven and so he came into the room and he looked at me and he said what are you going to do
i said i'm going to do law
he said you're not
you're going to do music in my university
so i said well what about my parents
he said don't bother about your parents and he went and walked right in the door of my parents' house you know and they were just looking at this man who is this man
and he said you must trust me with this young girl and so he did take me over as it were
driving the calves to pasture is a song that he gave you
yes
one of the first songs
it's a beautiful song liane because it's about driving the cows to pasture and this young boy addresses his girl and says come away with me for the night and in the morning i will throw you a kiss from the top of my hands and my five thousand love wishes for you it's a very gentle song
it's a song actually that you can nearly see the landscape of ireland i think
it's a song from county waterford which is a very rich luscious part of the country and has got the wonderful black water river and so you can see yourself you're actually beside the river as it's going and it's a very peaceful song
you did go to sarajevo
yes
and you did a concert there
yes
and workshops
i have been to croatia and bosnia several times singing in refugee camps both christian and muslim camps but liane i found really that it was very much particularly the muslim camps which i seemed to have been singing in quite a lot more than christian i think i only sang in about three christian camps but a lot of muslim camps and there really what people wanted was the actually transformative thing of somebody singing to them in irish in latin in hindi and it was actually quite irrelevant
it was just like singing to ghosts you know
and i think actually that experience was even more powerful for me or more transformative for me as an artist
so i you know we never actually got down to that level of sharing songs because the situation there is so tragic and you're dealing with survival rather than healing in a way
do you remember one of your songs that may have affected you in some way
yes i do
a song that yeah
yes i do
i remember the first time i went there it was in croatia in the north of croatia and it was a place called samobor and i was to have sung in a place called aptly called the barracks which was just a wooden hut of refugees muslim refugees which had been taken from the front lines and so you had all these strangers living together and when i arrived actually in croatia it was there was about two inches of or six inches of snow there about two months before the snow should have arrived at all
so you even felt liane that the elements were actually talking out against the anger or the evil that was there
and so we went along to that first day and the people who were organizing it were with me about four people and crowding into this room came about seventy of these men women children
so i just started with my shorty box which is just a little indian drum and i started to sing just to improvise anything that came into my head
and of course in the beginning the people sat around and they all looked and nudged at one another and laughed and said where did this thing come out of you know
but then after about three minutes you know there was suddenly all this quietness and as i say like singing to ghosts
and one piece that kept coming back to me kept coming into my head all the time was this oldest piece of singing we have in ireland which is a piece of lamentation
it's not on celtic soul
it's on my other recording and it's a lament a pre christian a pre christian lament for a child who has died and i kept coming back to this and that song has not been the same to me to sing that now in concert
it moves me i am right back there in that camp the barracks
and then when i went back there i happened to be in the same area samobor doing different work and i just happened to mention to the organizers whatever happened to the barracks and they said well it is uncanny it's strange that you're asking that now because last night that camp was evacuated by the soldiers came in in the middle of the night and they moved all the people out into other different camps again
so here were the people after establishing a relationship of about a year a year and a half and suddenly they were all segregated again
so at that time then there was a wonderful male dancer a dancer from the north of ireland and a mime artist a man from england and so the three of us said look we would love to go back to the barracks so we went back with about sixteen people and the place was a whole shell everything thrown all over the places babies' bottles babies' shoes toys
the whole place was devastated everything pulled off the walls
and then we walked through and we did a ritual of about an hour
i was singing the mime artist was picking up various things like even down to false teeth and the dancer was going around you know
and so that certainly was a hugely transformative event in my life something that i will never forget and something that has changed my singing indelibly
the keen from the virgin's lament a nineteen eighty release from irish singer noirin ni riain
her new recording celtic soul is on living music records
this is n. p. r.'s weekend edition i'm liane hansen
this is weekend edition i'm liane hansen
finally the fine weather we associate with spring has arrived in many parts of the country the kind of weather that seduces us outside to bar b. que in the park or perhaps to take a nice long walk
but soon that sound begins to insinuate itself into your reverie
at first it's a low rumble on the horizon then suddenly it's right next to you the car
so what motivates these guys with the big woofers
john biewen from minnesota public radio went to find out
it might be a little competitive thing whose stereo hits a little harder than the next guy's
it just depends how much money you invest in it
dean renwick is a thirty one year old party d. j. who spends warm afternoons in the parking lots at lake phaelon a park on the east side of saint paul
he estimates his isuzu trooper is worth about nine thousand dollars
more than half of that value is in the vehicle's stereo
i've got this philosophy i like to feel my music
and the philosophy i want with my truck is a lot of power and very little speakers so you can get a lot of mids highs and lows
renwick's vehicle is essentially a c. d. player on wheels
the custom vinyl the neon tubes for the rear window and the double alarm system are mere peripherals
the guts of the system are the amps and the speakers
pretty close to one thousand watts
i've got two fifteen inch
they countersink my amps in there
they do make a like a twelve inch and there are fifteens eighteens and that basically refers to the size of your woofers
matt mcconnell manages communications center a car stereo store in saint paul
mcconnell says women do spend money on their motorized sound systems but generally shop for over all sound quality
he says big woofers are a guy thing and the business is seasonal
as soon as spring to summer comes around we are absolutely packed
usually fall winter everybody's doing something else and they really don't care about showing off their stereo systems
so that indicates that it does have quite a bit to do with what can happen when the windows are open
oh very much so
very much so
in other words it's about showing off or if you prefer sharing
kind of everybody kind of refers to it as their bumps they got to have their bumps
if you don't have your bumps you know then it doesn't matter
when mcconnell gets a customer looking for bumps he pulls out what he calls the bass tape
this here is basically a collection of a gentlemen d. j. lazz and what he does is he tries to make songs or music with as much bass as he absolutely possibly can
a lot of people this is what they listen to when they go to the lakes to prove to everybody else that their system's better than everybody else's
back at lake phaelon dean renwick says he knows that some people are annoyed by thumping car stereos
he says for that reason and at least one other he doesn't often blast his stereo with windows open
the key is that to is not to show your stereo off too much because someone will try and get your stereo
that's pretty much how it is these days and that's why i pretty much spent a lot of money on the alarm system too so but it's kind of like a show piece like a hobby
should be fun this summer
for national public radio i'm john biewen in saint paul
six months ago hundreds of thousands of african american men came to washington for the million man march
dubbed a day of atonement the march set lofty goals for black men including a pledge to take the message home and to transform themselves and their community
christopher ajamu kai riggins a seventeen year old high school student didn't make the trip last october but in the months since he's been trying to find out what effect the march has had in his community of berkeley california
as a supporter of the march i wanted to know did the million man march really change black men in my community
i talked with johnny wright a twenty four year old student from san francisco who actually went to the march
what did i think about it
it was intensified
it was a holy day first of all
i've never felt such a holy day
i never felt so powerful
i never felt so strong
here at albany high school people hang out in the courtyard at break and at lunch
although our school is very integrated most ethnic groups hang out with people of their own ethnicity
though we're small in number most african american students hang out by the door sometimes blocking traffic but mostly just hanging
berlin germany is a seventeen year old senior who's the quarterback of the football team
as a black man have you changed since the million man march
for me personally i don't think i've really changed but personally i've seen the changes in a lot of other black men in the community and they brought back a lot of good ideas from washington
i see the community starting to coming together a lot and more brothers starting to help each other
like when they're down they'll like try and pick them up
it's like a lot more brotherhood and a lot of togetherness back in the black community
it's good to see
i think that million man march had good intentions but that the black man didn't take it the way it was supposed to use
i think most of them where there to be most of them that were there were into it but once they got home all the magic around that day just faded
o. k. so what has the effect on the community been since that day
no difference
like the day came it went and now people went on and did what they had to do living for themselves
it was another day
have you seen other black men change in their actions like the way they treat women or the way they act out their every day life
well in some ways but not in all ways because some men are just dogs
but me you know i'm always going to respect women because they're queens you know and we're kings you know
so that's why you gotta treat them like queens
uh uh that was useless
have you seen a change in the community
in my surroundings where i stay
in the black community yes
where i stay at i see damn near the same thing males still disrespecting females
i mean i still see the same thing men still on corners selling drugs or whatever doing what they gotta do or what they want to do
i haven't seen any change besides older males
it affected some older males to where older older males to where they got their organizations together and stuff like that
but they're not making any effort to go get those younger males from the streets
the younger males is what count because that's what's going on right now
i mean the younger males is what's happening to us younger females because that's going to reflect on us
they need to get the younger males up there and try and do something
like i said i went to the march representing hundreds and thousands of brothers that couldn't make it to the march
so yeah i've been more serious
i've been tightening up on my personal skills
you know i'm getting up earlier in the morning now
took the b. word out of my mouth took the n. word out of my mouth too although that wasn't angst but i just felt it was necessary
today when i was riding home on the bus this dude was trying to get with this lady and she said why should i give you my number you know because he was i guess some awful game or whatever
and he said well you know you should give me your number because i went to the million man march and i got respect for you or whatever
you should respect me as a black man since i did that
a few men at my church in berkeley started a rights of passage program to help young men grow into manhood
they've had the same program for the young women for the past few years but this is the first time around for the young men
minister e. j. junior a former n. f. l. player and father of five young men is one of the people that got the program off the ground
now a kid could go out disrespect a teacher go out and shoot somebody then can go out and rob a store then go out and get high and nobody cares
we've lost that community
we don't live close
and i think the million man march was a wake up call to say hey we need to grab our young men take them in our arms and teach them hey this is not how to survive this is not how we are as a people
so we agreed to give up three hours of our saturday mornings to come and learn different lessons child care money management and how to live a christian life
we were called charges
each charge was given an adult mentor to help them with the program and things that come up
these principles are designed to provide you with guide posts when you have to raise the question of what should i do they are designed to provide you with a way of looking at the world
they are designed to provide you with how to measure your character
they are designed to provide you with a beacon that you'll reach out for when you lose your way as all of us will do
at the first ceremony we were each asked to give up a token of our childhood as a way of leaving our childhood behind
some brought video games but for me it was my freddy bear
we all lined up and i had to walk over and kneel down in front of my parents as a sign of humbling myself and then i handed them my freddy bear
with this token i honor my parents and i give you thanks
i thank you my son
our ancestors honor you
being that i'm younger than you and i didn't get a chance to go to the march what could you tell me as far as being a black man in this country
that you were represented for first of all
even though you weren't able to make it to the march you had brothers that were representing there for you
and the message that i got to bring to you is the same message i got
we got work to do
ain't nobody going to do it but us you know
if you went to the march and didn't come back and get busy in your community to help your folks out something's really wrong with you
i mean you could talk you know
you could talk all you want but your talk has to be backed by action just like prayer
i don't have an answer for johnny wright but i do know that the million man march was more than just a day
it was something that was needed and i for one am glad it happened
i don't know if anybody else is going to change but i do know that i have to change for myself
we was about nine ten deep on side of the street
and we see these brothers on the other side of the street and we see that they're pumped up and we get pumped up and we yell a little something and they yell a little something
we throw the black fist in the air and next thing you know we're all running across the street cars stopping you know
and i run into these brothers' arms and jump like i just scored the game winning touchdown getting love
i just jumped and they caught me like i'm their team mate or something because i am
they're my brothers
it was tight y'all
it was a lot of love going on
for national public radio i'm christopher ajamu kai riggins in berkeley california
weekend edition essayist lester sloan says the message of the march can be found both in those around us and within ourselves
ours was a challenge of the heart to prove that collectively we are greater than the sum of our parts
that we are neither endangered nor dangerous
we responded to a voice within that asks us to set aside our differences and focus on our potential to be nobler men
we answered the challenge and in that moment the world looked on in wonder
we were not distracted by the doubters or the nay sayers
our goal
to remain focused on something more lucid than a lightning bolt pride
the pride we see reflected in the eyes of our sisters and mothers when we give up our seats on buses or monitor our language in their presence
the pride we see in the faces of our children as we practice the art of parenting
and the pride we experience in those unrecorded moments that pass between two black men greeting each other in a hostile world that tries to hold them hostage to a view of themselves that they hardly recognize
unlike our fathers many of us were born into a world with no assigned task
the old enemies lay if not defeated robbed of their sting and we were faced with a new challenge our own inertia
what now some asked
what does it all mean others wanted to know
in a world of uncertain expectations our task while less defined remains every bit as daunting
marginalized by a system that changes its rules in order to hold onto its prizes we must carry the day while holding onto our hope for the future
we must learn to measure progress by using a different yardstick in the process making up lost ground while continuing to strive for excellence
when we marched we set in motion a blueprint for change
by our own example we challenged a world that sees us through a prism of refracted failures
looking within ourselves we must extract a healthier picture and project that onto the world
for by taking control of our image we both empower and ennoble ourselves
lester sloan lives and writes in los angeles
along the israeli lebanese border a fragile peace is put to the test as tens of thousands of refugees go home a six year old charged with attempted murder the question is a courtroom is the place for one so young and ten thousand runners take their marks as the longest olympic torch relay begins in los angeles
from a. b. c. this is world news saturday
here's aaron brown
good evening
after sixteen days of war and hundreds of deaths there is peace tonight on the israeli lebanese border
it is a tense peace an uncertain one but it is peace
muslims are slowing returning to their homes in southern lebanon israelis returning to settlements like qiryat shemona neither very confident that the war that drove them from their homes is really over
we have two reports tonight reports from both sides beginning with a. b. c.'s richard gizbert in nabatiyeh
lebanon's roads south were jammed with refugees going home this morning
trying this journey yesterday when the israelis were still shelling this road could have cost these people their lives
today is the start of the homecoming the headlines said
although most refugees didn't know what to expect on their return home the vast majority found their houses intact
but not all
hassan belhas lives in the village of sidhakin within sight of kana scene of last week's massacre at the u. n. camp
thirty nine members of his family died at kana
today he came home to discover the israelis had also shelled his house
we don't hate the israelis because they are israelis
we hate them because of what they do what they do to us of destroying our homes and killing our people
like most of the south nabatiyeh came alive with people today
the job of repairing the damage and laying the blame is well underway
flying high was the flag of hezbollah the islamic guerrillas who exchanged rocket and artillery fire with israel
israel likes to blame hezbollah for the crisis that led all these people to flee in the first place but today hezbollah is helping bring some of them back
hezbollah has a social as well as military side
the group provided fifty buses for returning refugees
at kana scene of the massacre they were preparing the site of what will be a mass grave
only now with people protected by the cease fire is it safe to hold funerals
richard gizbert a. b. c. news south lebanon
this is mike lee in northern israel
five minutes before the deadline a hezbollah rocket pierced a roof and landed in this kitchen
no injuries because the family who lives here chose not to return home last night
the next door neighbors who had stayed throughout the fighting were badly shaken
terrible terrible
we don't trust in the this agreement
by morning the cross border shelling had stopped the big guns covered and the front line israeli villagers free from their longest ever stretch in bomb shelters but many here are frustrated that hezbollah has survived
i didn't get peace
i didn't get any changes
that anger is already being used by opposition leader benjamin netanyahu in is campaign to become the next israeli prime minister
the right thing to have done here would be to dismantle the hezbollah capacity in the south of lebanon
the israeli military defended the agreement today
if the hezbollah will stick to it said the chief of staff general amnon shahok it will not be able to target our civilian population the nearly deserted border towns were beginning to return to life today a few cars a trickle of refugees loaded with luggage and hoping to find their homes in one piece or even almost in one piece
a katyusha rocket was turned into an israeli sculpture
it was a day to get rid of two weeks' worth of bomb shelter garbage and to enjoy the peace even though few in this town believe it will last
mike lee a. b. c. news qiryat shemona in northern israel
tonight the israeli prime minister peres travels to the united states he's scheduled to meet with president clinton on monday
youngsters who commit a first crime don't have to have to become life long criminals a program that works when we return
the world's largest democracy goes to the polls and two olympic champions go for the gold gold rings that is
in jordan montana today there are some new players in the thirty four day armed stand off between federal agents and the right wing militant group the freemen bo greitz the former green beret who helped mediate another confrontation in nineteen ninety two involving the survivalist randy weaver was allowed onto the freemen compound with a former phoenix police officer jack deglamm
weaver himself tried to get on the premises but was stopped
in fact there is no perfect formula for dealing with juvenile offenders but there is ample evidence that unless you teach kids early on that there is an unpleasant price to be paid when you are caught their crimes will escalate
teaching that lesson and stopping that escalation is what the shortstop program in california is trying to do
here's a. b. c.'s brian rooney
first the kids surrender belts wallets and jewelry
their names are replaced with a number and they stand for a mug shot
they're put into a garbage strewn holding cell just like they were going to jail then real juvenile inmates tell them what it's like in prison
see you're not thinking homeboy
you need to start thinking
what's up with you pretty boy
the prisoners are here to scare kids aged ten to seventeen who were caught shoplifting stealing a car breaking into a house
you're gonna be right here in my position homey stuck in jail stuck with a damn number homeboy you know what i'm saying
you're gonna lose your girlfriend and you're gonna become someone else's girlfriend
the message like the language is blunt you're not as cool or tough as you think
this isn't just the old scared straight routine
it makes kids admit what they've done to themselves and to their victims and it forces them to talk to their parents
a critical part of shortstop is what happens at home where the parents and the children practice what they've learned in class
shortstop was started in nineteen eighty by the orange county bar foundation to divert young offenders after their first encounter with the law
it's run entirely by volunteers with a four hundred thousand dollar budget raised from private donations
the county probation department says nine out of ten shortstop graduates stay out of trouble
sixteen year old chris sharp was caught shoplifting
pretty much i'd just go out with my friends and we'd go steal stuff and just pretty much just kick back
we knew that there was gang tendencies dressing like a gangster really into the baggy clothes the hand movements that type of thing
the police recommended shortstop
now chris is doing better in school and holding down two jobs
like after the program it took me a while to kind of say look i'm not doing you know anything good
i need to stop and just take responsibility
the change is visible in some of these kids when they return for the second session
they sit straight and they're better dressed
while the first night was spent tearing them down the second is for building up looking at what's good about them what could be better
what do you need to improve
my smart ass attitude
some of the most rewarding moments come when parents have to speak openly to their children
we're not allowed to show their faces
you're my little boy
i have always been proud of you no matter what
you've showed us in this time that you've gathered back some of your self esteem you've showed some of your integrity and all i can express that we love you more that you are really trying to put everything that we've given you back to us and for that we say thank you
maybe it's not a miracle but for many of these parents and children it seems like it
brian rooney a. b. c. news santa ana california
we'll be right back
the presidential primary season is effectively over
senator bob dole is now just waiting to be nominated
president clinton is waiting to formally declare but formalities aside neither side is waiting to campaign
just about everything going on in washington these days is part of the strategy
here's a. b. c.'s jerry king
with yet anther clinton gore campaign office opening today this one in washington make no mistake about it this president is running
at fundraisers such as this last night in philadelphia and across much of the country clinton's fellow democrats seemed to like that idea
they've seen him high and they've seen him low and and i don't know that they really want to be joined at the hip with him but they certainly aren't running away from him now
a sharp contrast to last year after mr. clinton's crushing mid term defeat
republicans set the agenda in congress and the president of the united states was left to plead
the president is relevant here especially an activist president
now it's the republicans divided and the white house is only too happy to drive the wedge deeper between senator dole and more conservative republicans
the most recent case in point mr. clinton's gasoline tax increase of nineteen ninety three to republicans another example of
democrats raising taxes senator dole is calling for its repeal
no waffling this time from the clinton camp the reaction immediate accusing dole of helping republicans raise gas taxes earlier and higher
we are committed to what we call rapid response
that is if someone makes a charge about us we're going to respond quickly we're going to respond truthfully and we're going to respond effectively
one of mr. clinton's main campaign themes will be to paint conservative republicans as the bogeymen of politics
i think the strategy they employed of you need to re elect the president to keep republicans in congress from going too far early on when republicans were popular it seemed like a goofy strategy but more recently it seems brilliant
there is still the potential for many a slip between now and november on the economy whitewater the so called character issue
but clinton campaign officials say their biggest concern right now is overconfidence
jerry king a. b. c. news the white house
so while mr. clinton seems to gain the political advantage by being president senator bob dole seems to be suffering right now by being the senate majority leader
on issues like the minimum wage and health care senator dole has found himself outmaneuvered this week but says dole and his supporters don't worry it's early very early here's a. b. c.'s john cochran
he may be running as much as twenty points behind bill clinton in the polls but bob dole refuses to see any dark clouds
the president's had it pretty much to himself for six months and we've all been out beating each other up
you know i don't see anything but reasons to be optimistic
that's not how most republicans are feeling these days including two who served in the bush administration
bill bennett there's very little enthusiasm about dole bill kristol he may lose badly dole was not amused
well i'm talking to real republicans
i'm not talking to people who are trying to make a living by condemning republicans like bill bennett and bill kristol
that's how they get on talk shows
dole also ignores suggestions that he step down as majority leader
in a campaign short on money dole needs the free media exposure he gets as majority leader but when dole runs into legislative roadblocks as he has the past two weeks he looks ineffective as a leader
some of dole's supporters say what happens now doesn't matter anyway
the campaign starts in around labor day and we will have our act together we will be focused and we will emphasize bob dole's strengths which are experience leadership and character and we think we can win on that
but other republicans say dole must show some progress between now and the republican convention in august
bob dole and the republicans have to make sure the american people understand what this election's about see and understand the differences between dole and clinton
you can't wait till the convention to do that
if dole can avoid mistakes himself while successfully attacking the president dole's advisers believe that by august he can cut the clinton lead in half
that would still leave the president with a substantial lead substantial but not insurmountable
john cochran a. b. c. news washington
we're back in a moment
in india today the general elections have begun and with them the political violence that often follows
a bomb killed at least ten people in new delhi at least five others were killed in fights at polling places
having said that consider that this is a country of nearly six hundred million voters a complicated society where somehow democracy flourishes
here's a. b. c.'s mark litke
from the poorest citizens to a maharajah india's voters turned out early stood patiently in the heat and cast their votes the calm in sharp contrast to a caustic campaign
at stake the five hundred plus seats of the indian parliament the laksaba or house of the people a house very much in turmoil these days
a massive corruption scandal has tainted virtually every political party
the old political dynasties are crumbling the election results likely to be the most confused in decades
ironically the political mess comes just as the indian economy is on a roll a sizable and growing middle class finally getting a taste of prosperity
the ruling party campaign urged voters stay with us we'll all get rich but many aren't buying it
more than half the population still lives in desperate poverty
the economic gains are not trickling down
these politicians have done nothing for us
all the political leaders are corrupt
we need a change
many are trying to capitalize on that anger
hindu fundamentalists have strengthened their position promising a return to traditional values
so have the communists promising equality for the poor
india's elections tend to expose the volatile mix of economic social and ethnic divisions here and yet this country still manages to keep its democratic footing
as the american ambassador points out india survives crises that recently have torn apart other nations
fifty years it's kept its integrity kept its stability showed that you don't have to be an authoritarian nation in the third world in order to make it
polls indicate no party will win a clear majority which could bring in a weak government that won't last long and although that prospect disturbs voters already struggling with too many candidates on one ballot the right to vote is still serious business here
however disgruntled indians are not going to relinquish their title as the world's largest democracy
mark litke a. b. c. news new delhi
when we come back the long run to atlanta
the social register this evening includes the wedding of one time olympics gymnastics star nadia comenece to one time olympic gymnastics star bart conner
the couple was married in bucharest romania where the bride once lived
it was the couple's second wedding in as many days
their first wedding yesterday was as is the romanian custom a civil ceremony
the groom an oklahoman needed some help with the native tongue
today's event was a bit more formal
aspiring young romanian gymnasts helped carry the bride's twenty one foot train as she was escorted into the church where seven priests were waiting to bless the union
adrian nastasi the president of the country's ruling party led the couple down the aisle shrugging off suggestions the party was using the wedding the social event of the season for political gain though if true it wouldn't be the first time
look at that right to the handstand
gorgeous routine beautiful and the crowd loves it
romanian politicians have long used ms. comenece
as the fourteen year old darling of the seventy six olympic games the child who scored the perfect tens she was powerful propaganda for the communist regime in power then
so while the communists have fallen tonight's reception hosted by romanian president ian iliescu had a certain nostalgic flavor
ms. comenece who is keeping her own name will reside with her new husband in norman oklahoma where they will teach gymnastics
in sports the ninety six olympics begin on the nineteenth of july in atlanta
they're billed as the american games and the olympic torch is making an american journey which began this morning in los angeles
over the next eighty four days about ten thousand people will pass the flame from torch to torch through twenty nine state capitals in forty two states
more on an olympic relay from a. b. c.'s carol lin
the lighting of the olympic flame was a ceremony honoring history and heroes
olympic decathlon champion rafer johnson who was the first african american to open an olympic ceremony back in nineteen eighty four was today the first runner among thousands in the torch relay
more than half the torchbearers were nominated by friends and family chosen for their extraordinary service to their community men and women who've saved lives built schools and shelters who trained weeks before this big event
the youngest thirteen year old glenn smith works with the homeless
the oldest ninety six year old frank kelly volunteered for the united way
he raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for them in the last twenty five years
this was a real big surprise to me
i never imagined that i would be honored in this way
he will be part of the longest olympic torch run in history
costing twenty million dollars this relay will also be one of the most commercial with runners once called the heralds of peace now heralding products for corporate sponsors
everything they wear eat drink and drive will prominently display the name of a company like coca cola which is paying more than ten million dollars to be an olympic sponsor
and for the first time in olympic history the runners themselves can buy the torch
the price
nearly three hundred dollars
the money goes toward sponsoring community heroes like frank kelly
in fact he says he plans to run again at the next olympic relay when he will be one hundred years old
now for the next one
now for the next one
carol lin a. b. c. news los angeles
that's our report for tonight
i'm aaron brown in new york
for all of us at a. b. c. news good night
tucson has a growing reputation as a center for the arts
one big reason for that is the degrazia gallery right here
ted degrazia was tucson's most successful and most famous artist
here's a look at what his art and tucson have to offer
plan to be at the gallery in the sun when the doors open at ten a. m.
dozens of other visitors will be close behind eager to learn about one of the areas most interesting characters
the complex is actually a series of galleries strung together like pearls on a string
ted degrazia usually painted the people native to the southwest
he once said about ninety percent of his works included children at one point he even said he wouldn't paint them anymore but that resolution didn't last long
today degrazia's widow marian is in her ninety's and still a daily presence at the gallery
your husband was obviously a very prolific artist
that's for sure
he did everything didn't he
people who don't know what he has done are amazed when they come to this gallery
every medium you can think of
and describe his work
some people say it's impressionistic
it's not photographic but it's a little bit before photographs
mm hm
if you can say it that way
what was his favorite work
alone
it's one of two horses
mm hm
a rider on one horse and the other horse there is no one on
just think about it
yeah
alone
degrazia said he wasn't exactly religious but that he did believe and it showed in work after work
when he died in nineteen eighty two he was buried in a place he considered heaven on earth on the grounds of the gallery in the sun in the shadow of the catalina mountains
the tucson of today is very different from the one ted degrazia knew as a young man
hundreds of years ago it was called stupshon and indian word meaning spring at the foot of the black mountain now in the nineties it's a sprawling metropolis of nearly eight hundred thousand people
nearly fifteen hundred years before the white man arrived native american cultures flourished
on this day in late winter one of tucson's many festivals that celebrate those cultures was underway
visitors who weren't watching the redhouse dancers were admiring and buying the authentic native american arts and crafts on display
rex redhouse a navaho elder says this is good
some of the people are beginning to realize the importance of self development mind and body and that way the beauty comes from above
it goes through us and then it goes into the item and then we revere that very highly because we have put an effort into it and that way we are part of that item when we give it to somebody
while tucson hasn't always done a good job of preservation visitors can still find examples of its rough and tumble heritage
casa cordova for example illustrates traditional adobe architecture
adobe was made of mud and straw and anything else that was handy to form one of the first environmentally correct building materials
but as adobe became less fashionable wealthy residents began building grand homes each one more distinctive than the last
many of the city's newer residents arrived by train and promptly checked into the hotel congress directly across the street
it's heyday has long passed but the hotel is still popular with travelers
partly because of its rates
it's thirty eight dollars plus tax
and partly because of a history that is almost as colorful as the decor
in nineteen thirty four the dillinger gang was staying here under aliases
coincidentally while they were here a fire broke out in the basement
the bad guys escaped with the help of local firemen only to be recognized and captured a few days later
those who don't want to leave their home away from home can check out the action at the hotel's tap room or they can drive a few miles across town to the cactus moon
the dance floor is hopping and it's
hotter than the fourth of july
all told a tour of tucson makes for a long day but then the night is almost always young under a cactus moon
newsreel
more than half a dozen cruise lines have been hit with lawsuits that say they are padding their bottom line by socking it to the customers
the class action suits were filed in four states on behalf of passengers who have traveled on the lines within the last four years
the suits claim the cruise lines collect up to two hundred fifty million dollars u. s. a year in port charges imposed by various governmental bodies
they also say the cruise lines use the charges as a source of revenue
the cruise industry defends the charges saying they are clearly listed in brochures for every itinerary
most hotel guests expect their sheets to be changed every night
but the american hotel and motel association wants to encourage travelers to treat their hotel rooms like home
they are launching a good earthkeeping campaign in may to offer guests the water saving option of reusing sheets and towels
at the miravel resort outside of tucson for instance guests can indicate whether they want to participate in a similar program and it's as simple as the turn of a stone
smooth stones are left in each bathroom
all a guest has to do to participate is turn it over
eco tourism is moving to the forefront on the caribbean island of aruba
the country recently announced plans to expand and improve access to aracot national park
the project will add about six hundred acres to the park making one fourth of the island a protected zone
good news for traveling pet lovers bad news for traveling allergy sufferers
according to the pet food institute there are about sixty four million cats and fifty three million dogs in the united states
this much pet power is being catered to by the major airlines
most airlines allow a limited number of under the seat kennel carriers for an extra fifty dollars per flight but the allergies pets carry in their fur are adding extra sneezes to traveler's with allergies
kaylynn thomas samuel c. n. n. travel guide
degrazia's work spanned several decades but his images are just as fresh today as they were in the forties which reminds me that there is something about the southwest like the sunshine that is truly timeless
when we return we will pay a visit to a nineteenth century cattle ranch that's now a center of twentieth century luxury
stay with us
tanque verde ranch
welcome back to travel guide
fanny and i are about to mosey over to sovino canyon
we will tell you about it a little bit later on
but while we're on the trail we want you to sit back and enjoy a place where visitors can get a taste of life in the last century without any of the backbreaking work that went into it
the sun rises high above arizona's sonoran desert
the horses are hitched nearby their riders waiting and watching
a lone cowboy approaches but he's not packing a six shooter
the only outlaws here are prickly suaro and choya cactus
and this cowboy is actually the corral boss for one of the west's oldest working ranches the tanque verde tanque verde ranch
this all inclusive resort is about a half hour from downtown tucson
it's just one place that offers ordinary folks a tame version of the wild desert
tanque verde claims to have arizona's largest stables with more than one hundred twenty horses but you don't have to be a rugged cowboy to saddle up and ride back into the old west although some good horse sense could come in handy
there is no minimum skill requirement
these horses are used to beginners
we screen our horses pretty close when we buy horses
we've got some very docile quiet calm horses
and when we do purchase horses i either myself or i will assign one of my wranglers to ride a particular horse for thirty days and then we will evaluate them and kind of go from there
children should be at least five or older
there is no age limit for seniors but flexibility is a must
well you get a little stiff
but if i have another week maybe i will
you should see her try to get off the horse
yeah i can't get off yet
maybe in another week i could
the guided horseback ride winds through a maze of sagebrush rocks and towering cacti
but it also features a few things you don't usually find in the middle of a desert like a brunch al fresco including eggs biscuits and flapjacks
and once riders finish stretching their legs and their stomachs they return to the saddle and head back to the ranch
while the ride can be rough for some the lodgings at tanque verde are anything but
rates run between two hundred forty five dollars and two hundred eighty five dollars a person per night but the price includes all meals and activities
guests can relax in a fully furnished suite or soothe aching muscles in a bubbling whirlpool
the resort also features tennis courts an exercise room and swimming pools
most visitors spend their days soaking up the bright arizona sun but some seven year old prodigies may prefer to tune up their musical skills
even with its modern comforts tanque verde hasn't lost its rustic roots
it began as a cattle ranch in the one thousand eight hundred eighty's
times were tough and bandits often went unchecked
in nineteen oh four outlaws raided the ranch and hanged the owner by his neck over a wood beam in what is today called the card room
the owner survived but he died four years later of complications from the hanging
the ranch was transformed into a guest ranch in the nineteen twenty's and became a full fledged resort in nineteen fifty seven
today humans aren't the only guests at the tanque verde ranch
the sonoran desert is also home to many creatures like rattle snakes scorpions and black widows
ranch operators hope that by bringing people nose to nose with these dreaded creatures they will forget their fears
but for most guests it will likely take more than one get acquainted session before they feel at home with their new fanged desert friends
steve nettleton c. n. n. travel guide
well we haven't seen any yet but i will bet fanny would protect me from any of those nasty snakes if we did
it's time now for us to move along to this week's geography quiz question
this week we want to know about a canyon south of here that is five times as large as the grand canyon
we want you to name it
we will have the answer and we will take you there when travel guide's arizona adventure continues
where in the world
welcome back to travel guide
so far we've toured tucson saddled up at tanque verde and seen one southwestern artist's impressions of the yaqui indians all adventures that conjure images of the old west
but there is one place in north america where these traditions are still a way of life
see of you know where in the world we are taking you now
these are pictures from the next country south of here mexico
and that's actually part of the answer to this week's geography quiz question
remember we asked you to name the canyon south of here that is five times larger than arizona's grand canyon
the answer is the copper canyon in mexico's sierra madre occidental
it's actually a series of canyons with an area five times that of the grand canyon
we will be taking you to mexico once again next week on travel guide
we will tell you more about cinquo de mayo when we come back
it's time now for me to ride off into the sunset but i will be back again next week to celebrate cinquo de mayo and the best of latin american culture
i am valerie voss
we will see you then
next week travel guide celebrates hispanic culture from old town and mission san diego in southern california to the music of mariachi in arizona
we will also visit the old country itself as we experience village life in northwestern mexico
join us next weekend as travel guide commemorates cinquo de mayo
president bill clinton is turning up the heat on the republican congress early this election year
his latest political salvo came from philadelphia last night at a fund raiser there
the president challenged the republican congress to come aboard and walk into the future on a balanced budget
as c. n. n.'s bob franken reports the president will face some heat tomorrow in the white house
there is constant pressure for the clintons to tell their whitewater stories under oath
the first lady did just that before a washington grand jury last january
the president gets another turn on sunday when he testifies at the white house on videotape in the trial of his former whitewater partners and his successor as governor of arkansas jim guy tucker
more than two years ago we got a brief preview
the president is not a defendant
he is testifying because the prosecution's star witness in the little rock trial david hale has implicated him in the ten year old illegal loan scheme
hale charges then governor clinton pressured him to loan three hundred thousand dollars to defendant susan mcdougal
she and her ex husband and co defendant jim mcdougal were the clinton's whitewater partners
hale who pleaded guilty to making illegal loans and made a deal with prosecutors for his testimony described on the witness stand described on the witness stand a meeting he claims he had early in nineteen eighty six with jim mcdougal and governor clinton
they discussed he said a loan for jim and the governor made to susan mcdougal's advertising company
hale went on the governor said to be sure my name cannot show up on this it was the only encounter with clinton hale was allowed to describe in court but he has publicly spoken of others including one at the arkansas state capitol
he just came over and shook hands and visited a minute and then he asked me if i was going to be able to help he and jim out
attorneys and defendants bitterly complained their trial is merely a political attempt to get bill clinton
i think that's what this trial is all about is an effort to demean and defame the president
independent counsel kenneth starr the prominent republican whose role in the case has become increasingly controversial has repeatedly denied partisanship
it's our job to do our job as best we can in an orderly and professional way and that's what we're seeking to do
on sunday afternoon defense attorneys and the independent counsel's prosecutors will grill the president
the defense attorneys will determine when they wish to play the tape to the jury
the judge has ordered the tape sealed after that after that and kept secret until that
keeping that big a secret in washington is always a challenge
the president's challenge will be to discredit the testimony of david hale and discredit in the process he hopes the entire whitewater investigation
bob franken c. n. n. the white house
drug testing at this summer's olympic games promises to be as intense as the competition
c. n. n.'s dan rutz joins us this morning with details on new rules and new technologies designed to catch any athlete who tries to use those performance enhancing drugs there
well joie good sportsmanship can no longer be taken for granted among the world's elite athletes
the lapses of the few have led to a ritual of medical testing to help assure a clean olympic competition come july
tens of millions will watch the elite compete in the atlanta olympic games but the victories won't count until the winners perform for another audience the olympic committee's team of drug testers
it's a sign of the times
athletes know that many drugs from steroids to stimulants can help them play better and no one is above suspicion
i don't think that the public is interested in seeing sort of chemical warriors out there on the field
there's no honor and dignity in that
in the nineteen eighty eight seoul south korea games ben johnson got caught with banned drugs in his system and stripped of his gold medal
the barcelona games four years later were said to be cleaner
strict enforcement and severe penalties appear to work as in recent years fewer athletes are testing positive
it started off at somewhere above four percent dropped down into the three and then the two percent range and for the past five years or so has hung around at least in this country just below one percent
not many cheaters but enough to convince world class athletes like michael johnson that while urine on demand sounds demeaning it helps keep people honest
i'm extremely pleased with it because i was instrumental as part of the athlete's advisory in getting some of those things in place
drugs known to boost performance are banned
anabolic steroids which mimic male hormone give athletes bigger muscles and make them more aggressive
there are strict controls on these drugs for any purpose but many other drugs on the hit list are available right over the counter
stimulants often found in cold relievers are banned
even too much caffeine can disqualify an olympic athlete
narcotic pain killers are out as are diuretics a class of drugs that can be used to hide the presence of other banned chemicals
flownase is a corticosteroid inhaler and it is allowed but there needs to be a notification on file from the physicians
a drug testing situation is made more complex by an athlete's legitimate medical needs
the u. s. olympic drug education committee maintains a hot line to field questions from athletes
and when you see these tomes of banned substances i mean a listing of forty and fifty pages sure the athletes are confused
but they are also held responsible for what goes into their bodies at least almost always
when clean cut olympic swimming prospect jessica fasche tested positive for steroids last summer the fifteen year old was shocked and devastated
she said the test was either sabotaged or her gatorade maliciously spiked with a drug
the sanctions committee believed her story recalling perhaps the mean spirited knee bashing figure skater nancy kerrigan suffered before the winter games two years ago
but some say tough luck that the presence of an illegal drug no matter how it got there is all that should matter
i think the strict liability keeps it clean that if in fact the test is valid and the test does show a banned substance that a penalty does occur
and that's about the only way i foresee there being consistency across the board for policing drug testing
some drugs including human growth hormone and a blood doping compound that helps the body make red blood cells are banned but escape detection in conventional tests
but scientists are working on the problem and the atlanta games will feature a million dollar from europe
the mass spectrometer is said to be three times more sensitive than standard tests
it will assure that those who go for the gold are really making it on their own
well dan it's sort of a sign of the times that you have to have drug testing at the olympics
i guess the question is you have the olympics that are founded on amateur competition good honest fair competition and look what we've come to
why would these athletes want to cheat
well there's many motivations but it really depends on what part of the world they come from miles
if people come from a totalitarian regime or from a part of the world where really people are pretty hard up this could be their ticket to a new way of life and so there is incentive that way
also some athletes in past years have felt that perhaps they have to cheat in order to be competitive because everybody was doing it
this was true of body building a few years ago and weight lifting sports
but now the sports are much cleaner than they used to be
the use of drugs has decreased dramatically in recent years
besides sabotaging of your particular testing how reliable is the test itself
it's said to be extremely reliable for most substances but there are several banned substances that cannot be detected
one is a sort of a blood doping compound
it makes more red blood cells and another is a growth hormone which also may enhance performance
these occur naturally in the body and the devices to test the drugs are not sophisticated enough at this point to find out what's natural and what isn't
but there's very few categories drug categories that fit into that area
well tell us a little bit about the process
how is it ensured that the athletes don't try to subvert the whole system and try to cheat on the tests themselves
where this is an area miles where athletes give up their privacy
they are there's an observer assigned to them from the time that competition ends for the winners now and the winners go through their medals and they go through their press conferences and then they are escorted to an area of the olympic facility where they are asked to produce a urine sample under direct observation
then they before that happens they choose the vial in which that sample will be placed so that they can't claim later than someone had something in that vial before it was given to them
and they stand there and watch while that is sealed and there's actually two samples that are taken and two vials sealed and they're tested one at a time
well we have heard the cases where there is some controversy over the results
what sort of appeals process is there if you think that you know you think you were clean
it depends on the event of course and it also depends on the situation involved but there is an appeals process
probably i mean if there's substance in the blood that's indisputable
at that point the athlete will be disqualified for that particular event
whether sanctions are applied to him or her in as much as they might be banned from competition later on that's the part where really you have some wiggle room and there has been some flexibility granted when people just insist that they didn't take these drugs knowingly
that they were accidentally introduced or perhaps maliciously introduced
or another possibility people do take over the counter medications for legitimate purposes
sometimes those can trigger a false positive
but the olympics organizers are telling people now to call our hot line to make sure that you know what you're taking before you take it
otherwise you do so at your own risk
all right
medical correspondent dan rutz we appreciate you coming in this morning
the struggle over the federal budget that ended thursday was in many respects just the latest part in a larger struggle over the role and size of the government
tight federal budgets and slashed social programs mean added pressure for churches and other charitable organizations to do more to keep a safety net in place
as as c. n. n.'s michael okwu explains many private programs already feel stretched to the limit
you can always count on the prayers the processions some incense and song
if you go to church it's all part of the service but church leaders nationwide say over the years they've been providing far more than spiritual sustenance and lately their service has been stretched
first set short term goals for yourself and try to reach those
a career guidance program for the formerly homeless in new york backed by an episcopal church
we have some classes in life skills and work skills job readiness programs resume writing interview skills job seeking skills work place ethics
a computer training session for children in california engineered by baptists
religious leaders say politic compelled them to pick up the slack divine reaction they say to ronald reagan's social program cuts in the eighties
you could do a graph that would show that when he was elected and the government funding diminished the efforts of the congregations and the churches increased
increased because in addition to budget cuts the past decade has produced more homelessness aids and increased disparity of incomes
while national numbers don't exist individual congregations say they've been working overtime
consider new york's cathedral of saint john the divine
we have a crisis emergency center we have a shelter we have a clothes closet we have counseling we have an aids ministry i mean those are all immediate
i mean think of the reverse if you just said sorry we don't have that here
church leaders aren't offering apologies to the needy yet but they are concerned that congress' most recent efforts to slash funding and pass the burden for social services on to churches might succeed
among church leadership maybe panic is too strong a word but certainly a very strong reaction that says we're almost stretched to our limit
catholic charities u. s. a. the nation's largest network of independent social service agencies claims the number of people seeking emergency food and shelter between nineteen eighty one and nineteen ninety three rose by seven hundred percent
its budget alone last year was two billion dollars
religious leaders also argue that a significant portion of their budgets come from local state and federal funding
sixty percent for example of catholic charities' budget is derived from sources
in harlem an association of churches synagogues and mosques is using private and federal money to provide low income residents opportunities to live in decent homes
it's a fifteen thousand unit urban renewal program
they're cleaning up and laying down foundations for families renovating long vacated buildings
hopefully they will supply me with good housing at low rent rate and that helps me
and in oakland along with prayer and song the alan temple church provides people credit assistance and housing for h. i. v. patients
we are responding to human need
we are responding to the cries of people
this is how we interpret religion
in the modern world ministers say this is their prophetic work
you know they're out ringing a bell
they're saying look there's a real problem here and if they don't do that prophetic role as well as the traditional role i think they're only doing half of their job
even if it wasn't on the original job description
michael okwu c. n. n. saturday morning
lots of consumers are fuming
officials are asking for explanations as the price of gasoline climbs
now over the last ten weeks the national average price for a gallon of gas rose from one dollar and thirteen cents to one dollar and twenty seven cents
the highest prices are concentrated out west where regular unleaded is selling in california for one dollar and forty seven cents and in nevada for one dollar and forty one cents
among those drivers paying least are drivers in the southeast
gasoline in georgia costs an average of one dollar and twelve cents
in oklahoma the price is one dollar and seventeen cents
now the california advisory board held a hearing on the price rise thursday and two u. s. senators are urging a justice department investigation of gas companies' pricing practices
joining us to talk about why gas has become so expensive is jay hakes of the department of energy
thanks for coming in this morning mr. hakes
thank you
all right
so we're hearing about all these gas prices going up
what is causing this
what's behind it
well mainly we had a cold winter the stocks of gasoline got very low and there's a lot of uncertainty on the world market right now which has driven up the price of crude so that's passing on to consumers
you talk about uncertainty in the world market
now one of the things that might be playing a factor is the discussion about the arms embargo and the possibility of iraq oil entering the market again
there is enough oil in the world market to meet the current demand but as long as people think that iraq might come back on the market and force down prices they're a little reluctant to build up their supplies so this uncertainty has not been good for the market
senator dodd senator lieberman among those who are expressing their concerns publicly asking for some investigations into them
do you think that such an investigation would result in the exposure of any sort of conspiracy being involved in this
i really don't know you know about the investigation
i think there are a lot of economic factors that seem to be driving this and if you look at california where the problem is more severe they're having some refinery problems right now so there's difficulty getting enough product to the market and in this period of what should be a temporary shortage it has forced prices up
would you really call this a shortage though
it's not a shortage in the true sense of it not being a supply problem
well as long as the price is allowed to rise then at some point either demand will drop or supply will come in from another region
as you mentioned in the southeast the gasoline is not so expensive
it is a little different type gasoline than they use in california but under certain circumstances that product can be moved out to california if the price is high enough out there to attract it
different types of gas is used in different parts of the country but also there are different taxes as well in different states
yes
the average state tax is about twenty cents a gallon
in some states it's as high as thirty five cents so sometimes people will write us and say well why is gasoline so much more expensive here than it is a neighboring state well the taxes alone might explain the difference of twenty cents
would you expect that with all the public unhappiness with all the media attention being focused on this that the companies will allow more gas to come into the market and perhaps we'll see some sort of stabilization in the coming weeks
well normally these run ups in the spring will last two or three months and then the market stabilizes itself as the higher price brings in additional product
because of the iraq situation this one is a little harder to interpret but we would normally expect that supplies will pick up and we'd see some of the turn around and down turn in prices that you normally get after these run ups
what is a consumer supposed to do with all this going on
i mean obviously we have no control over how the gas prices then
yes
this is the real difficulty for the consumer because if they're buying a television for instance and the price goes up they can delay that purchase for a couple of months
but they can't delay the purchase of gasoline and they can't put something else in their tank
so it is hard for the consumer
they may have some options to cut back their driving but those are somewhat limited
that's why i think gasoline gets so much attention when the price goes up
can u. s. consumers take any consolation in the price of gasoline in other countries
well the taxes are very much higher in europe and other countries
in most places in the world it is more expensive
i think americans can also take some comfort from the fact that the automobiles now go abou twice as far on a gallon of gasoline as they did in the nineteen seventies so even though the price per gallon is going up the price per mile traveled is not up so much when you take into account that efficiency
beyond the next couple months do you hold out any optimism for us drivers that over the next few months going through the end of the year that price will stable out
well if this year is like previous years we will see a turn around
it's very unusual for a price spike like this to stay up for more than two or three months
this year's is a little more severe than we've seen in the past but we would still expect that by the time that people are taking their vacations in the summer that the price would have returned to a more normal level
do you anticipate that there would be any change in public driving habits when something i mean this is not an increase this is the sort of level of increase that's annoying to us as drivers but does it actually change driving habits
generally people are going to drive
there's not as much of what economists call elasticity in this situation where people will cut back on driving that much because driving is one thing they need to do
however there is a point at which that will happen
what is more normal is people's expectations about gas prices will effect how efficient a car they buy and so over the long term the price of gasoline does make a difference in how much gasoline is used
jay hakes from the department of energy
we thank you for joining us this morning trying to sort out a little bit of that frustration at the gas pumps
thanks very much
thank you
if you find yourself constantly perplexed by those of the male persuasion and some mornings believe me are tougher than others help has finally arrived for all of us
at long last someone has come up with a variety of an owner's manual for men
well apparently a lot of people exasperated women mostly have been clamoring for centuries for some definitive guidance to male behavior
humorist dave barry who testifies that he is himself a guy is a leading expert in the field of manly attributes and he recently penned this the complete guide to guys and welcome to the program
thanks
thanks for having me on
well all right
so here's the thing
yes
we're trying to differentiate here the men and the boys
well men and guys
men are like purposeful serious meaningful intelligent thoughtful individuals
guys are like miles
guys are wha guys are what women end up actually married to
so what i what i basically tell women
are you sure
usually
that's a
some of us think we're married to boys and that's an entirely different category
but well there's no no
i think a guy is basically a boy who grew and and got a suit or whatever appeared to be older
but what i what i try to tell women is you you need to lower your standards basically
you need to stop thinking in terms
some of us are aware of that
good
we've planned ahead
you should think in terms of not phil donahue but a labrador retriever that somehow learned how to operate a remote control
that's sort of the intellectual level of your your emotional
so you think miles is a guy
miles is definitely a guy
we were just talking
miles even brought his little computer to work
yeah
i've have got the i've got the little p. d. a.
this is a guy thing
he's got
explain that
now in the book you're talking about how guys will take something that you know requires just pen and paper
yeah
and you'll take this incredibly complicated device to do the same job
i'm willing to bet this has ram in it o. k.
oh yeah
guys they're currently in the cyber era guys need ram
guy we don't know what ram is but we know we need more of it
now your computer
miles i guarantee you guy miles will get a new one of these very soon
another one will come out
because it's the newest latest whatever
right
this probably does fine whatever he wants it to do which i don't know what it is but
but it
and i'm not sure myself sometimes but
certainly does it in a smaller fastest better more
oh and i'm wired
now see like your computer that you do your column on
yes
it's says pentium it's mascot
it's got everything
i got a i got a monster power i got a computer that could easily
and and you're hunting and pecking right
yeah yeah
i'm going like this
i have a computer that could easily run the entire world but i'm using it to t. h. e. you know
it's a bored computer
it's going you know
you probably could have sent men to the moon with this computer
yeah
yeah but this is a guy thing right
yeah
i have
i've sent men to the moon with less gear you know
now see i sometimes think with my husband that it's the need to spend money on something
is it just because you want
yeah no
to know about the technology or being able to spend the money
oh o. k.
let me get this straight
all right
you're saying women don't need to shop
women need to shop
o. k.
oh i'm sorry
but they need to spend money on clothes which are very important
o. k.
that's what i'm saying
rams i'm not sure are critical
ram ram
well we buy sheep too
number
yeah
guy guy you're right
it's it's but it's not not a need to shop it's a need to get neat stuff cool stuff
like the whole space shuttle program basically is we we have elaborately explained why we need to have a space we need to go to space we need to explore we need to really it's just so we can get a big cool thing that goes
because let's face it o. k. what are we doing now with the space shuttle
we're like we're getting desperate for things to do
we say this time we're going to send eggplants up see what eggplants do you know
last time we
there have been a lot of
the answer is
is that news
they float around
they float around
everything we've ever put in space floats around
we know that
we know the issues
we've known that since the sixties
we're still doing it
why
because we like the part of it
now how do you explain this
you do mention that there are some women who can be guys
we mentioned katy couric earlier
yeah yeah
how can a girl be a guy
well if she has certain like bi you know immature qualities
if she can make this noise with her hands then see you're not a guy
i'm not a guy
which brings us to the nuggy gene
what tell us about this nuggy gene thing
it's a it's a something that distinguishes guys from men or women
it's the fact that as a way of relating to other guys other people they will occasionally grab them around the head and just rub their nuggy you just don't see that happening with women
but guys will do that
i i think like when clinton and yeltsin meet you know when when the camera's not on you know hey good to see you again you know
who's nuggying whom
probably probably goes both ways
i wouldn't want to nuggy president clinton because he has got that that stiff hair you know
you'd want to be wearing gloves i would think
get some abrasions there
he's kind of a nuggy proof guy
maybe that's why he's the president
now what's interesting in the book was talking about the differences between conversations between guys and conversations between shall we say gals
gals
well women
we can say women
women o. k. yeah
women women
big difference right
yeah because like women will talk about things
they'll talk they'll share their innermost feelings and
well that is the idea behind conversation
sure right
well guys don't have any innermost feelings
well you yeah well
i mean that's kind of the whole point of the book because deep down inside guys are really shallow
and so if two guys who have not even seen each other for many years meet and you know in in those years they've both had divorces they've had major diseases they've had all kinds of tragedy in their lives they'll meet and they'll go hey how about those jets
now you know some of us women have sort of felt that perhaps there must be a way to repair you people you know fix you up or something
i mean do you feel that there's any hope for us with guys
yeah i would say the main main technique to fix a guy would be duct tape
i mean if you're talking about something psychological forget it
o. k.
forget it
you know we're not
there's no hope
number
for redemption
because we think of ourselves as pretty much ideal and perfect
well so if i for women what is the secret to having a relation with a guy
they lower her standards
i have a a story in the book where i talk about this woman named roger and a guy name elaine
they're riding in a car elaine says do you realize we've been going out for exactly six months and this sets off a train of thought in each mind and elaine is thinking all this anguish stuff six months is that too long
is that too short
am i ready for this
do i want a commitment
does he want a commitment
am i feeling pressure
is he feeling pressure and roger's thinking six months
whoa i am way overdue for an oil change the the idea is just remember what's going on in here
wouldn't it be easier
look at miles
wouldn't it just be easier if i got a dog or something
yeah
yeah
and the advantage of the dog is the dog cannot as a rule change the channel on a television set
and they do that all the time
now is that a guy thing
i mean is did is this something to praise
yeah it's that hunter gatherer thing
a guy is always looking for a breast or some something that can i say that
it's a family program i'm sorry
i take that back
it's a family show
but it's not one of the seven words as far as i know
what is what about the guyness quotion
there's a little test in here
yeah
i do have a test in there to determine how much of a guy you are
it's a little quiz
for example if you're given a we'll use miles
if alien beings land on the planet earth they hand you a device that is capable of curing all disease wiping out hunger and poverty all over the entire earth you decide to a present it to the president of the united states b. present it to secretary general of the united nations or c. take it apart
take it apart
there you
right yeah you got to look figure out how it works
right
take it apart see how it works
one one more
what in your opinion is the most reasonable explanation for the fact that moses led the israelites all over the place for forty years before they finally got to the promise land a he was being tested b.
i know the answer to this
he wanted them to really appreciate the promise land when they finally got there c. he refused to ask directions
absolutely
never stop and ask for directions
a guy
never
never
that's why it takes one hundred million one hundred million sperm to locate a single female egg
none of them are asking
that's why they end up in like the pancreas you know
and women wonder why that is
there's a good reason why guys don't ask directions
i would say
we know a secret guy code
we know if we're driving along with a women and and we pull off to ask directions and a guy knows the answer he can take our woman
that's you don't know that
we're protecting you
that's it
that's why we're no we can stop
we've got to keep going
he doesn't know
the whole rational gee i thought maybe ego might be a factor
oh no
oh no
oh no no no no no
no no
i can tell you there are more fights per capita that occur in cars in those situations including my own car
i don't know about you but it does happen
never happens
that's why we're all going to get devices like this with ram that tell us where to go
a little g. p. s.
or you could just listen to your wives
he's going to get a g. p. s.
if you would just listen to your wives all this would not now now listen i have to ask you this
you've now given away the secrets of being a guy
now you are you at all concerned that women are now going to just understand guys to the point where we just run out and buy labrador retrievers or something
give up guys
no because because we can do this
well you know
dave barry
there is something to be said for that
i'm not sure what
i'm feeling very guy like
there and you should be proud of it miles
guy pride
all right
dave hennen one of the guys
oh yeah got to be guys
dave we'll get you one of these books
got a read it
one is a cool and dark thriller the other a wacky comedy
both are under review by our movie critic today
rick marin is the movie reviewer for newsweek magazine
he joins us from new york
thanks for joining us
good morning to you
morning
all right
mulholland falls
nick nolte is in there
now ever since i saw lorenzo's oil and nick nolte tried to play a person with an italian accent i've had a problem with nick
now is it a good performance in this case
it's a good nick performance in this case
i always like having a kind of old fashioned movie star
he makes you want to watch what he's doing
in this movie he plays a l. a. cop right after the war sort of set around the same time chinatown was and he's part of this squad of renegade cops whose job it is to keep l. a. free of corruption and organized crime
so whenever a gangster comes to town they throw him off mulholland drive hence the title mulholland falls and run him out of town
so this is a tough guy's movie right rick
total tough guy
all nick nolte does is beat people up throughout the whole movie and what happens is he gets involved with this murder of this beautiful young girl played by jennifer connelly who it turns out nick the character had been involved with and cheated on his wife with
so he has an emotional attachment to this case
so he and his buddies these three other guys played by chazz palminteri sean penn sorry chris penn not sean penn and michael madsen start investigating this murder which gets very complicated because it turns out this girl was also involved with this general who is the head of the atomic energy commission
this is right around the time they're doing the first a bomb tests out in the desert
so it's top secret and the government's trying to cover it up and the f. b. i.'s trying to cover it up so the government sends daniel baldwin an f. b. i. guy to try to cover up the case and nick nolte beats him up
you know whenever something goes wrong nick nolte just sort of beats somebody up and moves along
he's got the heft
now i noticed melanie griffith is in there but before we get to that it sort of looks like chinatown stylistically
is that accurate to say
it's trying to look like chinatown
it's not as stylish or as good a movie as chinatown but it's the same period so you've got a lot of guys walking around in double breasted suits and fedoras
so as miles mentioned there are some women in this movie although in the clip we mostly saw the guys doing their tough guy act there
melanie griffith the young woman jennifer connelly
yes
well melanie griffith is nick nolte's long suffering wife
she doesn't have that much of a part except that she gets upset when she finds out that nick had been cheating on her with this beautiful young girl played by jennifer connelly
so more suffering is involved right
yes
and john malkovich is the bad buy
now for my money there's no better bad guy in the business
john malkovich doing his usual weird thing with this kind of strange wig on and he's this crazy old general who is running the atomic energy commission
his henchman is played by treat williams
malkovich isn't really the super bad guy but treat williams shows up near the end of the movie as this kind of crazed colonel who does all the dirty work for the government
all right so we're going from this one which i guess you're saying is more or less a thumbs up on this one right rick
it's entertaining
all right
it's not a really deep movie but it's kind of entertaining to look at for a few hours
perhaps a rental maybe
is this a rental type thing
i don't know
i mean you could rent it or you could go
it's probably better to see it in a theater because it looks kind of good
all right
let's go to the other movie that you're talking about today
faithful the new cher movie
right
the connective link here is that chazz palminteri is in mulholland falls and chazz palminteri wrote and stars in faithful
the idea here is there's a rich middle aged guy played by ryan o'neal who has hired a hit man to kill his wife played by cher
you know their marriage is falling apart and he's cheating on her so he hires chazz to go and do away with her
so he goes out to her big huge house but what happens is that he sort of falls in love with her
so cher and the hit man develop this weird relationship while he's supposed to be killing her
he's calling his shrink on the phone the whole time
the shrink's telling him don't do it don't do it but chazz is this tough guy and he thinks he's got to kill her but he's falling in love with her
the thing was originally designed as a play written by chazz palminteri as a play and that is really what it feels like
most of it takes place in this house and most of this is dialogue between him and cher until ryan shows up at the end
so what's the weak link in this rick
is it the story line or is it the acting
what's happening here that you don't like
it's just a little i think it should have just been a play
the acting is o. k.
chazz i think isn't as good in this as he's been in some other things
cher is o. k. but it's kind of a one note performance
she's this depressed housewife who knows her husband is cheating on here and kind of just wants to die anyway because she thinks her life is over
so she just sort of pouts and looks sad for most of the movie
and her the idea that she the hit man would start up a relationship is a little far fetched
so tell me about cher's looks here
i mean let's get honest here
she's looking kind of different
what's going on
she's looking weird
i mean cher hasn't done much except infomercials for the last few years and you know i don't want to speculate on why she looks so different now but some people might say she's been cosmetically enhanced somewhat
and that was you that said that rick not us
can we quote you here
i didn't say that
i'm just saying that rumors
that some people might say that
so this one would definitely be a rental if that
all right rick marin with newsweek magazine we appreciate your movie insights this morning
we'll see you later
so why did so many well healed people throw common sense and an open billfold to the wind
gary tuchman is with us from new york this morning to try and answer that question
good morning gary
good morning miles
that is the thirty four point five million dollar question why
well that's right for the sixty four thousand dollar question to the thirty four point five million dollar question
just like those questions this is a hard one to answer
but i think a lot of the reason was all the attention that we and the media gave it that's part of it
but the main reason is the aura that jacqueline kennedy onassis had even two years after her death
i wonder if it's really a good buy though when you look to the long run
a hundred years from now some of these little trinkets what will they be worth do you suppose
well perhaps not all of them will be worth a whole heck of a lot
but a lot of people a great many people we talked to say they just wanted it because they wanted to have it in their home they wanted to have it in their lives
jacqueline kennedy onassis was a very important person to them and they just wanted it
all right
let's probe this a little further with harry wilks
he's a retired lawyer who is the proud new owner of a few pieces of the kennedy mystique
mr. wilks joins us on the phone from his home in hamilton ohio
good morning mr. wilks
good morning
mr. wilks what got you interested in this auction
well of course i was interested because of jackie kennedy
i thought she was the greatest first lady at least the most well known first lady that this country's ever had
all right so what that led you to spend some serious money to put your money where your mouth is so to speak
as i'm told here you spent about thirty seven thousand dollars on some earrings
tell me why you went after the earrings
well i thought the way it turns out i guess i was kind of lucky
it's kind of silly to say that you were lucky in paying about thirty seven thousand dollars for a pair of earrings that was worth four thousand dollars
but when you see all the prices that were paid and the fantastic bidding well maybe i was lucky to get them at that price
but i picked out those earrings i thought i better get something if i'm going to get in there and get it i better bid on something that i think is going to be worthwhile
and there was a picture in the catalog with jackie wearing these earrings and she was with her two children and they were meeting president talking to president clinton in the rededication of the john f. kennedy library in massachusetts
so it's a bit of history there
now you're going to put them behind bullet proof glass and on display or will you give them to someone to wear or
no i know somebody that would be very very happy to wear them
well good
so i'll they will be worn
now you didn't stop there
you spent about four thousand dollars on a book entitled greece
why that
o. k.
well about two weeks before i was i just happened to meet the author of that book in miami florida
i was down there for a wedding and i had purchased three pieces of outdoor sculpture from alexander lieberman who was the author of this book
he asked me did this is our first meeting and we talked about an hour
and he said by the way he said did you ever see my book on greece and i told him number well that's all you know then we went to another subject
well here i'm sitting at sotheby's and i'm looking at the catalog and i see that there's a book coming up by alexander lieberman and he and jackie were good friends
and in the book he which he gave to jackie he put you know to her with the greatest admiration and signed his name and this book was obviously read many times by jackie or looked at many times
you know mr. wilks a lot has been said about the frenzy involved in this auction
while you were there did you get caught up in that frenzy
yes you had to
i mean it was like electric in the room
i mean i have been to auctions at sotheby's before and i've never seen anything like this
i mean it was like a feeding frenzy
i mean people were bidding you could hardly get your paddle up before it would go up five or ten thousand dollars
all right
mr. wilks harry wilks the proud owner of some thirty seven thousand dollars earrings and a four thousand dollar book on greece
we thank you for joining us this morning
we hope you have much happiness with your new possessions
gary you were there for that auction
give us a sense of the atmosphere this frenzy we've been hearing about
harry wilks explained it very well
there was a feeling of electricity in the room
you know usually at sotheby's when people hold up the paddles the paddles have three digits on them
because there were so many people involved they had to put four digits on them because there were so many people bidding
but unlike a lot of auctions at sotheby's you had media from fifty countries covering this
so you had all the members of the press on one side of the room and they're all talking and talking on their cellular telephones and getting involved in it
and then you have the bidders
and everyone kind of yelling and talking to each other and there was a very strong feeling of excitement
and it was very easy for bidders to get caught up and make a decision to say well i wasn't planning on going to eighty five thousand dollars
my budget was four thousand dollars but i think i'm going to bid because this is pretty exciting
all right
gary we're going to ask you to stand by for a moment
joining us now to talk about the auction a little bit more is historian carl sferrazza anthony
he has written a book on first ladies and has a new volume coming out about jacqueline kennedy onassis
also joining us is stephen wallis of art and antiques magazine
he attended the auction on thursday
welcome to you both gentlemen
mr. wallis first to you was there any rational reason for these prices looking at it purely from the sense of art and antiques
no i don't think anyone was particularly surprised by the fact that the prices of these things went through the roof
perhaps in degrees slightly i don't know that anyone imagined that something like john f. kennedy's golf clubs that arnold schwarzenegger purchased for three quarters of a million dollars would sell for one thousand times their estimate
but i don't think it was a tremendous surprise that these things did as well as they did
well i'll ask you the same question i asked gary
are they good buys
looking at it purely as an investment or is this not an investment really
it's just something an emotional attachment
well as gary said some of these thing we'll certainly appreciate many of them we'll not
and ultimately people are not buying these things simply for their intrinsic value but for a sentimental nostalgic value and also they're buying it partially for the hype of the moment
the auction itself has become an historic event and i think there's a lot of people who have an awful lot of money who are at the auction that felt a need to grab a piece of this history not just of camelot of jackie kennedy onassis but also of the auction itself
all right
mr. anthony let me ask you this
we've been talking about the things
let's talk about the person at the center of it all jackie
if she were around for this auction what would she think about it
oh i think she had a wonderful sense of the ridiculous
and so i think it'd be very easy to imagine her at the back you know saying something you know like gosh i wish i'd put my toothbrush holder up too i mean you know i think she had a very wonderful sense of humor and very rye very understated and i think she would have been sort of shocked by the prices
you know she didn't have a sense of herself being someone who was really quite worthy of all this attention and at a certain point she thought it was silly
you know and she would sort of laugh at it and make fun of it and she saw it as something of a caricature something larger than life and i think that caricature has now become a symbol that's sort of entered the pantheon of you know people like you know cleopatra and marie antoinette
well tell me you mentioned some historical figures
if this were another first lady's belongings mrs. lincoln mrs. roosevelt you pick a first lady
would it have had this kind of frenzy and would the prices have been nearly as high
well i don't know
i tend to doubt it
i mean even if you think of someone like eleanor roosevelt or martha washington or dolly madison i think that there'd be high prices but i don't think there'd be the kind of personal sentimental attachment that there was with this sale
i mean even what if george washington's things or abraham lincoln's things were put up for auction you have to wonder would they command these prices
but i think it's because she who she what she symbolizes has ultimately become more important perhaps than who she really was as a person in the sense that her impact on her friends and on her family and on her colleagues will in a sense die with them
but that her impact as a symbol will probably go on in perpetuity
gary tuchman let me ask you this you live and work in new york city
new york city is a place that is not easily captivated by any one thing
was the city wrapped up in jackie o. frenzy not just the people at the auction
there was a lot of attention paid to this and that's a good point miles
there are a lot of things happening in new york city and it's very rare that one particular news event takes the lion share of the news
but this particular event was something that everyone here was talking about
people certainly throughout the world were talking about this
but here in new york city you'd walk down a street and it would be did you hear what that jackie onassis object went for it really was the talk of this town for a few days
let me ask you this
we got quite a bit of public response here at c. n. n. about this and there was somebody who called in and said that there exists a class of people willing to spend a half a million dollars for a cigar box when congress is having difficulty raising the minimum wage is shameful
so there is this sense that this is kind of a playground for the rich
does that did you get a sense of that at all in the streets
it certainly bothered a lot of people
one thing you saw at sotheby's which is on the east side of manhattan here you would have homeless walking down the streets begging for money and it struck some people as unfortunate an unfortunately coincidence that you had millions of dollars being spent inside this room on objects that would normally not cost more than one thousand dollars and you had homeless people who don't have any money right outside but that's what happens
people have money they want to spend it something important to them and certainly they're right
mr. wallis this was quite a windfall for sotheby's an unanticipated windfall
i suppose that christy's was in the bidding for this
was there a lot of competition to get this particular auction
well it's my understanding that with the exception of some discussion very preliminary discussions at the time of prior to the estate's appraisal christy's was really never a consideration and it was really sotheby's estate from the beginning
it was really a noncompetitive situation
now you were there on thursday
the people in the crowd
it was probably not the average crowd for an auction
how different was the crowd
well i think that the people that were in the room for the most part are regulars on the auction circuit
although i think the interest extended obviously way beyond people who are generally participating in auctions at sotheby's and i would venture to guess that there were a fair number of people in the room who rarely if ever had set foot in an auction house
mr. anthony tell me a lot has been written and said about jacqueline kennedy onassis' taste
did her public taste the persona which we all saw when she redecorated the white house for example match her private taste
well in the sense that she enjoyed the look of antiques or of an earlier age and in an even more specific sense that of you know late eighteenth century france
but what she did at the white house was with the advice and guidance of really great experts national experts in this country on antiques as well as a library committee for books and a painting committee on pictures
what she did upstairs at the white house she really used furniture that had great sentimental value stuff that she had had when she first got married to then senator kennedy
and that stuff carried from georgetown when they lived together to the white house and to one thousand forty her home her apartment one thousand forty fifth avenue in new york
i think what's interesting is and this has not been commented on at all by the press is that amongst all these possessions were thousands and thousands and thousands of books
she was perhaps one of the most well read women let along first ladies of the twentieth century and highly literary mind
and when you went through the two showrooms at sotheby's they were connected by a long aisle of thick with books
interesting
perhaps a little bit underestimated
gary tuchman a final word
have you ever covered a story quite like this one
no this was very unusual and that's why it was a very enjoyable story for a journalist to cover because it was rare
i want to just touch on one thing that carl just said about the books
it's a very good point he brings up
we didn't comment enough about those books and it was something that was valued for a lot of people who went to the auction
we talked to one woman who bid one thousand one hundred dollars and kept going up and up
she ended up spending thirteen thousand dollars for four books
one of the books was about cape cod which of course was very important to the kennedy family
she bought the books she brought the books outside and opened up the book and she found a note inside the book that said dear president kennedy happy birthday to you it was a from a friend and that was in part of the book
and it was an unexpected bonus that she received
she was obviously very happy about that
all right
c. n. n.'s gary tuchman historian carl sferrazza anthony and stephen wallis an expert on antiques and art
we appreciate you all joining us this morning and helping explain the jackie o. frenzy in new york
we should point out that there were one hundred five thousand catalogs sold at forty five dollars for the soft cover ninety dollars for the hard cover
that money went to benefit the j. f. k. library so it wasn't all just money for people and well for the kids i guess
for within the family right yeah
referring to what people were saying there about all this money being spent
sure yeah indeed
federal agents have discovered in central georgia what they suspect are the components of numerous pipe bombs
acting on a tip from an informant yesterday they arrested two men with alleged ties to a local militia group
now they have been charged with conspiring to make explosive devices
preliminary indications are that the men operated some sort of freelance bomb making operation and planned to give the bombs to militia sympathizers
even though the f. b. i. calls these men small potatoes the case illustrates a disturbing trend toward domestic terror
joining us this morning to discuss the ease with which bombs can be built and the political forces which may light the fuse are stanley bedlington a former c. i. a. counter terrorism official and dan levitas an expert on militia groups
we thank you both for joining us
mr. levitas i'd like to begin with you and this the presence of these militia forces in georgia
the people that we're talking about here at least one of them was quite public in his involvement in the militia
should that come as a surprise to the general public
no not really
i i think we've seen in the past around the country many of the people that have been arrested and and indicted for criminal acts connected with the militia movement are often you know quite active in the leadership
and then again you have another group of people who are at the lower echelon so to speak who just surface when they commit violent crimes
but these militia groups are dedicated to violence
they oppose gun control laws
they believe they have a constitutional right to manufacture pipe bombs
and it's just a matter of time before someone is arrested again
hopefully as in this case before they do something dangerous
mr. bedlington there are many people who might say they have objections to the way the government is run objections to specific policies of government
but what empowers someone to feel that they can go strictly from advocating a particular position to believing that they should engage in a terrorist act
they subscribe to a very bizarre set of beliefs most of which stem from a religious aspect put out by a group called the christian identity
they believe that they are the true children of israel and that they are the last true defenders of of rights in this country
they believe that the federal government no longer rules them properly has broken god's laws therefore they have to defend it by whatever means possible
can i make a a point here incidentally
there are militias and militias
we should not brand all militias as being potential terrorists
true
there are citizen's militias in over forty states now may subscribe to these beliefs but all they do about it is go out over the weekend
they will stockpile weapons and food
but mostly they play out their fantasies in war games in the woods etcetera
mr. bedlington you know that there are some religious connotations in some of the beliefs
i think then about some of the other terrorist acts committed throughout the world
specifically we're thinking about aum shrinrikyo
right
in japan now now on trial the leader of that group now on trial claiming that there is some religious basis for what he has done
do you see other parallels between groups in the state and overseas
well i think so
if you look at those three incidents the oklahoma city bombing the bombing of the world trade center and the aum shrinrikyo episode in the tokyo subway i think you will see that they believe that their religion is under fire that their beliefs are under fire and that they have to strike back and in striking back they don't care if they cause mass casualties
mr. levitas what motivates a militia group or particular individuals within a group to start seeking out a particular type of activity
i mean what is it
is it a motivation to attack specific individuals or is it just to draw attention to their group
well it's it's it's really neither
it's much more broad than that
the militia movement in the united states today is really driven by three factors
one is a rabid opposition to any form of gun control and it was specifically the passage of the brady bill and federal anti crime legislation in recent years that gave the current militia movement its its boost
and i would just you know take a moment here as an aside to to disagree with our other guest and indicate that that no distinction really should be made between a peaceful militia so called and violent militias
they all subscribe to the same anti government hate filled philosophy and and all of their members are literally kind of an accident waiting to happen in some form or another
secondly the factor driving the militia movement in the united states has to do with racial anxieties and and racism
we see this in the larger society at whole as a whole with tensions around affirmative action and so forth
and thirdly driving the militia movement extreme nationalism super patriotism isolationism hatred of the u. n. suspicion of immigrants
that's where a lot of the conspiracy theories about the so called new world order derived from
so those are the elements driving the militia movement
so these fears of outsiders may motivate them
but what is the most effective way mr. bedlington to try to control their actions
is a crackdown the most effective thing to do
i think a crackdown stands in danger of creating more martyrs
from my perspective as a former intelligence officer and incidentally a former police officer for many years i think the real answer is excellent intelligence as a preventive measure
in this particular instance in georgia it seems that the b. a. t. f. had in fact an intelligence an undercover operation in place which led to the to the to to the attack rather the raid and the arrests
so i think it demonstrates very much the importance of intelligence in in combating these organizations
mr. levitas mr. bedlington refers to the bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms and their undercover operations in this particular case
in this case they say that a confidential informant was a critical feature in their being able to move on these specific individuals
is there a risk in your mind that as confidential informants step forward and accuse certain individuals that the rights of the rest of us are in some way violated
well i think you always have to have appropriate constitutional safeguards and protections for the civil liberties of the population as a whole
but clearly i think the the b. a. t. f. did what was appropriate in this situation
this is what should have happened with the oklahoma city bombing
you've got to get close to these organizations
you've got to get on the inside and where there is a reasonable likelihood that criminal activity is going to occur you have to interrupt that activity before it happens
you don't want to wait until you have one hundred sixty eight corpses as happened last april
so i think this was entirely appropriate what a. t. f. has done and doesn't really pose a risk to to our civil liberties in general
most americans are not out busy manufacturing pipe bombs burying them in their backyard and plotting to blow them up
as we see mr. bedlington the type of attention that's followed particular cases like oklahoma city like the world trade center there is the possibility that that might motivate further copycat type actions
but do you also see that media scrutiny might play a part in trying to stop these actions
not really
the media coverage after the oklahoma city affair in fact has given a boost to some of these groups
they do like publicity because it helps them get more recruits
and the other thing that media scrutiny does is in fact inflate the numbers and inflate the level of the danger
groups come out of the woodwork and say we're the militia of x. x. state
we now have twelve thousand members when in fact they may only have ten or fifteen
so media scrutiny does a couple of things
it it makes it very difficult for us to try and find out just how many there are of them and thus try and calculate the level of danger
but it also it gives them a lot of free publicity
well we will end our publicity of this particular subject on that note
mr. bedlington mr. levitas we thank you for joining us again on this subject
thank you very much
looking ahead to our program tomorrow we'll focus on the latest bad news for cigarette makers public health risks and big business on c. n. n. sunday morning
anyone who has tried to kick the habit knows that it isn't easy and some suggest it may be even tougher for women
here's janine sharell
susan camardo and tony reily knew it wouldn't be easy when they signed up for a stop smoking program
we got married six weeks ago and this was supposed to have been a wedding present before we got married but we put it off because we figured we're really stupid to do this in the middle of a wedding
they're going through the process together with the help of this cancer society support group
but what they're experiencing feels quite different
it's the emotional stimulus
like if i'm getting on the phone for a work assignment or if i start writing a story or if i finish a meal there were stimulus triggers for me but not so much the nicotine longing as the emotions that were associated with smoking
so we react to it very very differently because we miss them at very different times
while the percentage of smokers has declined dramatically during the last thirty years it's dropping at a slower rate among women
some say that suggests quitting is harder for women
smoking cessation expert dr. edwin fisher cites the stress factor
the stressors of running a household the stressors of bumping up against the glass ceiling the stressors of being a secretary with four bosses the stressors of being worried about gaining five pounds
all of those sorts of things really hit on women in ways that they don't hit on men and make the anxiety reducing and the mood elevating effects of nicotine especially attractive for women
another strike against women the long association smoking has had with keeping weight down
as far back as the twenty's ads like this touted cigarettes as a diet tool
a study in the new england journal of medicine reported an eleven pound weight gain for women who kicked the habit slightly higher than men
but people who run programs like this one say that shouldn't scare women off
i've worked with people who've dropped fifteen pounds
they started exercising they stopped other things that like drinking with smoking
so i've seen a lot of people lose weight
almost everyone agrees that at least initially women response better to programs that require something they're generally good at
talk talk talk because cigarettes have a way of stuffing down feelings and ventilating actually will give you some relief
so while the process of kicking the smoking habit may differ slightly between men and women the consequences of not doing it are the same
lung cancer has now surpassed breast cancer as the number one cancer killer among women just like men
janine sharell c. n. n. new york
in case you weren't watching your elected representatives in congress had their hands full this past week with a number of high profile issues
the atmosphere on capitol hill is further charged by the fact that this is an election year
when it comes to partisan politics the battle over the federal budget is one of the most contentious issues of all
seven months and two partial government shutdowns later congress and the president finally agreed thursday to a fiscal nineteen ninety six budget
the one hundred sixty six billion dollars spending plan will carry those agencies and services not yet funded through the remaining five months of the fiscal year to october first
after months of bitter partisan politics the debate boiled down to logging in alaska's tsongas national forest
congress gave its approval but granted president clinton the discretion and authority to cut back on the logging if he deems the environment is at risk
it's risky business for a president to have dealings with iran
just ask ronald reagan or jimmy carter
this week g. o. p. lawmakers opened a full core press into allegations the clinton white house allowed iran to ship weapons to the muslim fighters in bosnia herzegovina two years ago
at that time the u. s. officially backed the u. n. arms embargo
republican henry hyde will chair a new house subcommittee to investigate the matter
it isn't so much that the weapons were shunted into bosnia
many of us wanted the embargo lifted for quite a long time
the question is what was our role the united states' role
were we saying one thing and doing another
three other congressional committees are also looking into that question
the administration claims the investigations are politically motivated and insists the iranian arms shipments were common knowledge on capitol hill
it's common knowledge that it's hard to get by on the minimum wage in this country
this past week house and senate democrats tried to force a vote on raising the minimum wage by ninety cents
the issue is popular with many voters but so far the g. o. p. leadership has blocked the bill
that is prompting a mutiny
many rank and file republicans are favoring an immediate pay raise for hourly workers
house republican leaders on wednesday ruled out a vote on the issue any time soon
that means the minimum wage is staying put at four dollars and twenty five cents an hour for now
but legislation changing the face of health care insurance is apparently moving toward becoming law
if the house and senate can work out major differences between their two bills president clinton may sign the legislation in a few weeks
the senate on wednesday approved a measure to help americans get and keep health insurance even if they change or lose jobs or have pre existing health problems the one hundred two to zero vote offering a rare display of bipartisan cooperation on a controversial issue
we've had other one hundred to zero votes but i can't think of one on as significant a piece of legislation that can make a real difference to families in america
we have it unanimously past the senate
it speaks to the concern i think of all of us to try and answer some very heart felt questions regarding health insurance reform
the white house has promised to veto the legislation if two provisions in the house version are not removed from the final bill so called medical savings accounts which would be similar to i. r. a.s and a limit on damages in malpractice suits
congressional investigations in the whitewater affair also heated up this week
we'll have much more on that during our program tomorrow
for the meantime now is your chance to speak with our own bob franken about these and all other political matters
you can be part of our discussion by dialing now four oh four two two one one eight five five
bob joins us now live from washington to explain more about some of these recent developments
hello bob
good morning to you
good morning
good morning
i mean i don't know why everybody's making such a fuss
they said that they would pass the fiscal nineteen fifty six budget
and they did
promises made promises kept
forty years late but hey what the heck
the fiscal five months which is about all we have left
forty years
o. k.
we've got a lot of calls already
let's just go right to them
nova scotia's on the line
good morning
i think this may be a first from nova scotia
this could be
yes good morning
good morning
i've heard it alluded to a couple times on c. n. n. that mrs. dole's personal finances may not stand up to close scrutiny
i was just wondering if you had heard anything or if you could expand on that
well as a matter of fact there is quite a bit of close scrutiny going on now about the doles' finances
we've got as you know the elections in this country have become real slug fests and on both sides they have what they call opposition research reporters are looking very closely at the doles' finances and at senate majority leader dole's relationship with various corporations over the years and of course looks at the various private affairs of the clintons is well documented
so yes that it going on and those stories are in development shall we say
bob our next caller is on the line now from pennsylvania
your question please
good morning bob
good morning from philadelphia the city of liberty and independence
is the capital gains tax cut dead or will it get attached somewhere along the line in nineteen ninety six
it's not dead really
there are just a variety of tax proposals out there that still could happen
congress is sort of a project in development this year
they're still looking for ways to put out various parts of the political agenda but let's remember what this is all about
the various leaders of congress who are republican are trying to determine just how they can maximize their positions to create various political issues
what's happened so far however is that the white house for the most part has been dictating the congressional agenda as we saw in issues like the environmental issue and minimum wage
right now the democrats are calling the tune even though they're the minority
o. k. from the city of brotherly love to the hoosier state
indiana is on the line
good morning
good morning indiana
good morning
how are you
fine
i'm interested in how many elected officials in congress either side that have resigned or changed their political parties and why do you think why
well as a matter of fact i don't have the exact number now but most of those who have switched to the republican party this year did so in the wake of a real republican steamroller that happened last year
republicans this year however have been somewhat stymied and perhaps some people are wondering if those democrat switched republicans are regretting their move
one certainly did greg mclaughlin in texas who lost his nomination fight
as for those who are resigning there's a huge number resigning this year and many times the reason they give is that it just isn't fun anymore
a very tough job they say has become downright unacceptable because it has gotten to be such a slug fest up here
fortunately you still enjoy it bob
some of us like slug fests watching slug fests
some are just slugs
all right
our next caller is back in pennsylvania
my my my
are you one of our callers this morning
pennsylvania get us out this
hi
good morning
good morning
if bob dole is elected president how soon will the republicans begin dismantling social security disability medicare medicaid et cetera
now with my finely trained powers of observation i'm going to say that i think you just may be a democrat
the answer that the republicans would give is they have no intention to do that whatsoever
i suppose the democratic answer would be immediately probably not very quickly at least the republicans say they have no plans to do anything like that
o. k.
a familiar voice from georgia joe mccutchin on the line
good morning joe
we haven't heard from you in a little while
bob you do a great job
i needed that joe
the big question will the republicans retain control of the house and senate in nineteen ninety six
you're right
that is a big question
the rule of thumb right now is the republicans seem to have a lock on the senate
over in the house it could be more of a fight
there could be a very i've said this a lot of times there could be a very interesting subplot this year and more and more people are realizing that the question of whether the house stays democratic or republican is very much an open question
there are indications on both sides
republicans say they may in fact increase their seats but the democrats point to some poll numbers that give them some optimism
all right bob
our next caller is down in florida
your question please
yes
i'd like to know how come bill clinton has been given credit for making this budget deal when it's the freshman republicans and they have not been given a fair shake in the media
well the freshman republicans probably say that they were the ones that came in here and forced the issue pushed the envelope you come up with the cliche
what happened in the end however is that president clinton was able to put public opinion on his side to paint the freshmen and others among the house republicans as extremists to put the blame for those two partial government shutdowns on the republicans
so when all was said and done the public relations war was won by the clinton administration
the republicans have been very insistent this week by saying that in fact what they set out to do proved them to be the victors they cut from discretionary spending of the government i'll save you a discussion of what that is but they cut about ten percent out of it and republicans say they won that victory
but they clearly lost the public relations war
all right
spanning the ideological spectrum let's go out to arizona barry goldwater country
hello
your question
yes this is tucson
you're on
yes my question is on the minimum wage and why the media is not questioning the deal that mr. clinton made with the labor unions a. f. l. c. i. o. in particular last august in pushing the minimum wage and
well as a matter of fact we have reported quite frequently the republican contention that president clinton has now just become somebody who is speaking the labor line so to speak
what has happened is is the white house i believe and the democrats have discerned that they've got a good political issue
they are using the minimum wage issue to point to the republicans as defenders of the big guys at the expense of everybody else
that's what's happening now
the republicans clearly would like to see this issue go away
what they're finding however is when they come up with various efforts to try and manipulate the issue so it does go away their constituents get angry that they're going to cave
it's a tough one for the republicans
bob apparently i'm only getting calls today from pennsylvania but i have another caller from pennsylvania with a question for you
hello pennsylvania
hello
where are you from
bradford
am i on now
you are on t. v.
you are indeed
i wanted to call about the mr. franken mentioning mr. dole as a seventy two year old candidate
why doesn't he call mr. clinton a draft dodger candidate
so what you're doing is you're equating just to make sure i understand the basis for your question you're equating being seventy two years old to draft dodging
and first of all the white house would very much argue with the characterization of president clinton as a draft dodger but certainly we can objectively state that senator dole is seventy two years old which he does not consider at least he says he doesn't consider it to be a disadvantage at all
o. k. our next caller is in florida
good morning
you're on the line
good morning
is it not very useful given the allegations that special prosecutor kenneth starr may have conflicts of interest however accurate or extreme smear as that may be to have the senate continue with its whitewater investigation which we can all watch over c. span make our own judgments rather than later on
have either way
now for instance the administration say oh that was unfair
excuse me
allow me to interrupt
the senate has decided that the whitewater committee should get an extension until june until the middle of june
the republicans are now scrambling to try and finish that investigation
they're encumbered by the trial which of course is the whitewater trial going on in little rock
that is a prosecution led by the independent counsel ken starr
the issues about mr. starr's various private dealings really sort of are a separate story although the white house has certainly taken great pleasure in seeing to it that that story is out there
what the republicans what the democrats are trying to do is say that in both the case of the senate whitewater committee and in the prosecution of this case the republicans are being very partisan in an inappropriate way
and of course the republicans counter that what the democrats are doing and the white house is trying to do is to hide the truth
go figure
who defines appropriate anymore bob
now what is appropriate partisan behavior
see i thought that that was something that was left in the hands of anchors
we don't know much about
the marquess of queensberry's not involved
we know that
appropriate behavior
hey bob we're going to see you back here tomorrow right about this time actually a little bit earlier tomorrow morning nine o'clock eastern hour
we will talk further about the issues arising from the whitewater investigations and what may lie ahead for the president as well
we turn now to c. n. n.'s rob reynolds
he joins us from jerusalem this morning
hello rob
hello miles
well the understanding officially went into effect about twelve hours ago and so far the guns and the rockets throughout northern israel and southern lebanon are silent so the accord seems to be holding up
in the northern israel town of kiryat shmonah people emerged from bomb shelters where they'd stayed hunkered down for the past sixteen days
but only a few israelis who had fled the rain of hezbollah's rockets returned home
they're biding their time waiting to see if the agreement is really going to be honored
now under the u. s. brokered agreement between israel syria and lebanon hezbollah may not target israeli civilians or launch rockets from civilian populated areas in lebanon and israel is barred from attacking civilians or civilian targets in lebanon
but there's a lot that the agreement doesn't do it doesn't change many of the fundamental problems in the area
israel still occupies a strip of land in southern lebanon hezbollah is still committed to ejecting them from southern lebanon and still vows to attack israeli soldiers if not israeli civilians
so there's a number of things that were a great number of fundamental things that were not addressed in this and joining me now to discuss some of those issues is ehud yaari a foreign affairs analyst here in israel
thank you very much for joining us mr. yaari
my pleasure
what did israel actually gain out of operation grapes of wrath if anything
i think first it ought to be clarified
we are not dealing with a cease fire agreement here
there is no agreement of cease fire and the word cease fire is not mentioned either in the text of the understanding the exchange of letters or the public declarations made by the different negotiators including secretary christopher
what israel has gained is new rules of engagement in southern lebanon
hezbollah according to the understanding is limited restricted now to try and mount attacks against israeli soldiers and south lebanese soldiers the israeli sponsored militia in south lebanon in open areas outside populated areas without with having the extra guarantee that hezbollah cannot mount or launch katyushas and rockets against israel from populated areas
this is the great israeli achievement in this understanding
now what about the role of syria
hafez al assad was a key player in putting together this whole deal
he didn't seem to lose a great deal and he may have gained something
is assad riding high at this stage
well i would say generally yes
on one hand president assad had to make a choice between striking a deal with secretary christopher and israel and sticking to his alliance with iran
he chose this time to prefer the understanding offered by the americans and israelis rather than supporting future high profile iranian role in southern lebanon
number two he has won recognition from both the u. s. and israel for being the major player in lebanon
from an israeli point of view mr. assad now shares some of the responsibility or probably the major responsibility for restricting hezbollah's activity in south lebanon restricting them basically to the open areas
and this is what israel had wanted some greater responsibility carried by assad is that correct
i think mr. peres wanted to end the situation in which mr. assad was fighting us by proxy proxy meaning hezbollah having him publicly take irect responsibility for what is going on in southern lebanon
all right now if assad does have this new prestige or stature or whatever you want to call it what does he do with it
does he take it to the negotiating table with israel
as always he will play by ear
i believe that he's interested in getting back to the negotiating table with israel probably prior to the upcoming israeli elections on the twenty ninth of may and this is to be negotiated during the next few days between the american administration and president assad
this is certainly acceptable to the israeli government mr. peres i believe would like to see resumption of negotiations with syria before election day
all right great
well that's all we have time for for the moment
thank you very much mr. yaari
and we will as always be continuing to cover this story in all of its developments
the next stage perhaps politically tonight mr. peres shimon peres the israeli prime minister is flying to washington where he'll meet with president clinton later this week
so that's all from here for now
miles
rob you mentioned mr. peres and the political stakes for him domestically were very high in this case he needed to find a face saving way out of this
i note that this morning ariel sharon former defense minister and a conservative member of the parliament right now is calling it a surrender document
is there a chance that he hasn't gotten that face saving withdrawal
well there are two ways of looking at that
on the one hand if this fighting had been going on in southern lebanon continuing up to the date of the elections that certainly would not have been good news for mr. peres
if the entire situation was completely unresolved at that point things might have been wearing fairly thin
mr. peres was generally supported operation grapes of wrath was generally supported by the israeli public so he didn't lose any votes over this thing
but i think that his opponents particularly benjamin netanyahu of the likud party are going to try to portray peres as having to succumbed to pressure from the united states and particularly from syria
miles
o. k.
and as promised brent sadler is also standing by
brent i noted in your piece just a few moments ago seeing many people returning to rubble which was their homes
does this agreement provide any sort of funding for them to help rebuild and how has anybody actually tallied up the total damage
no no one has worked out the dollars and cents yet in all this but certainly the lebanese government will be looking to compensate people who have lost their homes it will be looking for outside aid financial assistance for new reconstruction programs
let me just take you back to what we were hearing in jerusalem about these new rules of engagement which are falling into place post this new understanding
certainly from the hezbollah perspective their operations will be restricted they are banned from now using areas populated civilian areas to launch attacks but so too are the israelis their rules of engagement are affected by this because in the past historically when there have been hezbollah attacks against israeli occupation troops in south lebanon lebanese gunners have gone for the villages they've shelled villages repeatedly over the years here regardless of who happened to be in those villages when they were bombed
of course israeli air strikes have also been launched in reprisals for resistance attacks against the occupation forces in south lebanon
so not only will hezbollah be restricted but so too will the israeli army
of course they reserve the right to hit back when they feel that they are under attack but there are going to be some gray areas it's not as clear as everyone's making it out to be
this new monitoring organization which will be led by the united states and france but it will also include syria which is important as well as lebanon and israel this monitoring group will have to act as judge and jury if you like of breaches of this agreement on the ground
things are going to take place take some time to settle down
this is a brand new understanding the hope is that it will last and it will maintain a period of calm certainly in the civilian areas but let's not also forget that the war lebanon's war of resistance led by hezbollah and other allied factions is going to continue against those israeli occupation troops
miles
always a lot of gray area in the middle east
brent sadler in tyre lebanon and rob reynolds in jerusalem we thank you both for joining us this morning
now live from washington the capital gang
welcome to capital gang
i'm mark shields with al hunt robert novak and margaret carlson
our guest is former republican presidential candidate steve forbes
thanks for coming in steve
nice to be with you
great to have you here
finally seven months later and after two government shutdowns the republican controlled congress passed and president clinton signed into law a bill completing appropriations for the current fiscal year
we would have happily accepted this budget last year
i think that the forces within the majority party in congress wanted to show some positive results to prevail
this is the largest amount of savings washington spending that has been saved since world war two it's truly historic
where does that leave chances for a seven year balanced budget plan
i want to meet with members of congress
i'll do it in a large group or a small one or one on one but i want to finish the job
the republican reaction was mixed
we both understand there's a little politics in the air around here on both sides but we said we'd get back together
our leaders are not going to be meeting with the president until we have a budget that we've agreed upon that we know gets us to the right place
bob novak is this really one of those rare situations where both the republicans in congress and the democratic president have both won
number
oh
in a word no
there's no question this is a great victory for the democrats
sure the president shaved things more than he wanted to but the big republican goals of really reshaping government doing away with all these trouble programs like goals two thousand they capitulated on that
they capitulated on direct lending
they didn't they gave up on things like aid they wanted to make aid for the aged to go to the states instead of still going to the a. a. r. p.
so this was a big democratic win
the republicans have been in retreat and now the president has got their nose to the fire on this question of whether you're going to have budget negotiations
senator dole obviously wants to negotiate
most everybody else doesn't
margaret carlson robert reichauer the former head of the congressional budget office when the democrats ran it said that historians will judge that the republicans won the war
who's right reichauer or novak
i actually have to agree with bob novak here
i mean the democrats stole this victory from the republicans
clinton now looks like he is for a balanced budget he stole that idea back and what people remember about the republicans is that they wanted a tax cut for the wealthy they wanted a tax cut for bob novak they wanted to cut medicare and they wanted to you know kill environmental regulations and college loans and all these other things and then they wanted to shut down government on top of that
so they it looks like clinton brought them back from the edge
so democrats won this battle
steve forbes please is there any light here for the republicans in this whole resolution
well the light is that it's finally over
given their goals of a year ago it is pretty small
given what we would have expected eighteen months ago it's a real achievement
but what is noteworthy is not what was cut and not cut but what margaret referred to they could not get this pro growth job creating tax cut
that was their big mistake
they got caught up on the budget failed to remind the american people these are all means to an end to get america moving again
clinton saw his opening
that's why they lost the budget battle
but i think they can come back but they have to start to work on it right away
al hunt the democrats just swept the day huh
no but mark first of all i have to comment on my friend john kasich you know the greatest victory since world war two
i mean he would have had custer at a draw at the little big horn
i mean this is talk about hyperbole
look i think that bob is basically right but for the wrong reasons
i mean given all the hubris of a year ago
that's the best point you've ever said about me
that's right i mean you know that's fifty percent better than usual
but given all the hubris of a year ago of more sweeping revolution the new deal and all that stuff of course it's not very much
but i'll tell you why
it's because this is all in discretionary domestic programs
these are none of these are permanent cuts
i mean to really make a revolution and frankly to have good public policy you should have addressed entitlements and both the republicans and democrats took a dive on that
they probably cut domestic discretionary stuff too much and they didn't begin to touch entitlements and that's where real reform is
a year ago the republicans were very confident totally united setting the agenda
the president was insisting that he was not irrelevant
today the president's fifteen points ahead the republicans are divided dispirited and without a leader
is there any hope bob
and steve is exactly right that
on the tax cut
on the tax cut
that is the purpose that god
you two agree on that bob
yeah that's why god put republicans on earth
that's right
to cut taxes
god put republicans on earth to cut taxes
exactly
yeah
you know politically
she'll be happy to hear that you know
politically the republicans had a real problem with how to handle this and do you declare victory as john kasich did and say it's wonderful or do you say boy oh boy we got beat
now they're trying to do both because they're also saying gee the president only wants to have these big programs but we still did a wonderful job
it's very hard to say that the president has been totally uncooperative but we got a great deal
okay politically doesn't this really argue for both the continuation of the republican congress and the democrat in the white house
i mean it's divided government works the status quo is acceptable you know we can move things along like that
what it should show the republicans is the importance of getting the presidency
it's not enough to have a legislative agenda
if you don't have the white house it's going to be very difficult to do
that's what they should have learned from forty six
they've learned how to learn it painfully again from the after the ninety four elections and they must have a pro growth agenda reoccupy that high moral ground or it's going to be a very tough road for them
but what the public now thinks is that the white house the president brought the republicans back from this extremist program
they really didn't want that
it was a mistake to think there was a huge mandate for you know poisoning the water tainting the meat removing all these regulations
people didn't really want that and they don't want to make it harder for their kids to go to college
but what people want
and they don't want a tax cut until the deficit's under control
no no
what they want is to get the country moving again and everything is a means to an end to increase opportunity get those jobs created
in that sense the economy today is the equivalent of walking pneumonia
we should be doing at least twice what we're doing today and there are ways to do it
steve we're doing better than almost any other major industrialized nation
compared to europe
you're absolutely right
they're even worse than we are
and compared to japan too we're doing a lot better
but mark look i think we all can agree on the republican mistakes
but let's not get caught up in any kind of democratic euphoria here
i mean these the democrats won because they played defensive ball
i mean there hasn't been any great change or revolution in the democratic party
i think al's right and i think if anything bob the fault line between the democrats and the white house the democrats in congress now becomes apparent because if bill clinton gets a seven year deal the democrats in congress are going to be upset
steve forbes and the gang will be back
welcome back
the week began for republican presidential candidate robert j. dole with an article in the conservative weekly standard in which editor william kristol says the senator is likely to lose the presidential election adding this he may lose badly
the challenge for republicans is to keep a dole defeat from derailing the ongoing republican realignment
who's bill kristol
i don't look upon him as anybody who really understands politics
william kristol the weekly standard the conservatives and republicans need to go ahead and fight the fights at the state and local level at the congressional level and on the issues
another republican conservative william bennett weighed in next telling a gathering of conservative activists that dole's campaign is not coherent and that he should step aside as senate majority leader
that prompted a rebuke from republican national chairman hailie barber for publicly criticizing the party's leader
when you start three or four weeks ago we're down by fourteen or fifteen points and now you just report we're down by twenty points i would suggest that this is not the direction we want to be heading
al hunt are bill kristol and bill bennett off base or are they just telling it like it is
mark it's hard to argue that the dole campaign is a juggernaut right now but and i also think the two bills are among the really bright lights in the republican party
but this over reaction
it's very early
every winning nominee right after he gets the nomination looks weak
ronald reagan did jimmy carter did bill clinton did
and secondly bob dole does have a point
for all their brightness i don't recall i may be wrong but i don't recall bill kristol or bill bennett ever winning a campaign or even running in a campaign you know for that fact
so i think their inexperience is showing because among other things if bob dole goes down badly as bill kristol predicted a lot of those conservative icons on the state and local level and in congress are going to go down with him
well is that is it sort of a self fulfilling prophecy now if these people are saying gee we're going to lose we're going to lose that it means people lose their enthusiasm they lose their sense of unity
nonsense
i really am touched by the concern that both of you show for poor bob dole
this what these two fellows are saying are what everybody in the republican party has been saying for a week for two weeks that this from the staff level to some very senior people even in the leadership ranks
what's the criticism
the criticism is that he's a lousy candidate
he has no vision he has no strategy he doesn't know what he's doing and he is terrible on t. v.
he goes on face the nation and he has no idea what he's talking about and they and it's an anguish
i don't think it's early
i think it's late
i think it's going to be very hard to close that gap and it and what they're really saying what bill kristol was saying at least is every man for himself
they want they've got to disconnect from this wreck he's saying if it's going to be a wreck if they're going to keep the house and the senate and the idea that gee you've got to support them or we're going down with the ship is nonsense
steve forbes a day is a lifetime in politics a week is eternity
i mean a month and a half ago bob dole was fighting for the nomination
we've got seven months to go in this race
i mean isn't this a little premature to be doing the post mortems already on the part of conservatives
well you're right about the day and the week in politics
i went through that myself and i think we have to remind ourselves it is april not august before the convention or october before the election
but i think what the dole campaign has to do and i think many people in the campaign recognize this is they do have to come up with that pro growth strategy and agenda and i think two our people on capitol hill have to do the same thing
they did not anticipate president clinton beating them on the budget battle
they've been in a funk
i think they're coming out of it
i think they're going to come up with some very exciting alternatives on the minimum wage in the next couple of weeks
we have wonderful issues
the key is to get those issues out there believe in them argue them passionately and i think that senator dole's campaign will is recognizing that and i think he will come around to it and if they do we could turn this thing around
margaret carlson one leading democrat said to me today the republicans have picked up all the democrats' worst habits
i mean they're shooting their wounded
absolutely
shooting their wounded
yeah
i mean seriously
yes
i mean they're first of all they're counting on whitewater the way democrats were counting on iran contra and they're turning mutinous at this point i mean and the bills were supporting lamar alexander as if he had some great coherent campaign
he had a shirt for a campaign
really
yeah
it was really it was a big red and black shirt
but it's friendly enough to carry you through
you know dole you know dole's strength actually is that he does have a certain kind of bedrock honesty an abe lincoln type way about him
he is never going to get passion but you know he's not bill clinton
you know the public says we don't like these slick
do you think he's as witty as abe lincoln
we don't he's quite witty bob almost as witty as you are
he he's not going to get the vision thing
he doesn't trust the vision thing and he's going to be who he is which is you know a very direct a very down to earth kind of guy and they're just going to have to you know get over it and you know he is the candidate
when bob novak criticizes bob dole for going on television and not knowing what he's going to say i mean mark you know that killed the show
that was the test
i mean right
i mean let's face it
he knows what he's going to say
the republican party exists for one reason
but margaret margaret carlson is absolutely right you're not going to change this guy right now
nope
he's seventy two years old
moreover there's just been a contest
i mean steve forbes ran a really good race
pat buchanan ran a really good race
but the guy who ran the best race was bob dole
your part
he was a lousy candidate
he was a horrible candidate
well i'm sorry that those dirty unwashed voters don't agree with you bob
the riff raff decided they didn't want him
any time in this whole process that he had to stand up to the competition and when he had a real contest he was in trouble
but this whole system the whole thing just ran
the voters they're riff raff
got running
it wasn't bad
i'm sorry bob
it was a system there was no contest
i mean elitism bob of the worst order
let me point out to all these crepe hanging gloom and doom conservatives that in the los angeles times poll a week ago the one that's got them all in the funk because if bill clinton was leading bob dole by eighteen points in that same survey bob dole on the question of honesty and integrity had a sixteen point lead over bill clinton among voters and on
and it doesn't matter
stands by his convictions ten points
i'm telling you i mean this guy does have strengths as a candidate and they should not be writing him off
no but he does have those strengths
but the key that i think what we're grappling with now is that a party and a candidate have to be seen as standing for something on how to get america fulfilling her potential and i think al was right earlier the democrats are the right
they're on defensive
they have nothing to offer
they're very good at ambushing and re rolling the old rhetoric but i think the republicans must get that positive agenda out there from the hill and in the campaign and that's what we're struggling to do now
one thing the democrats have been looking forward to a dole candidacy for a year
that is the last word bob and thank you very much for that prophecy
welcome back
for the first time in nearly half a century the senate voted on congressional term limits
all fifty three republican senators but only five of forty seven democrats voted to limit debate on a constitutional amendment
it fell two short two votes short of the sixty needed and majority leader bob dole pulled the measure off the floor
president clinton not only has consistently opposed term limits he even sent his solicitor general of the united states supreme court to argue against the term limits law that passed overwhelmingly in his own state of arkansas
he should drop his opposition to term limits and help deliver the votes necessary to pass the constitutional amendment
margaret carlson does senator dole have a real campaign issue here
if this is what he has to run on he's in as much trouble as bob says he is
you know this is where his honesty is a problem for him
he looks like he's eating spinach when he's talking about term limits
he doesn't believe in it
he you know he's glad to get it off the floor
i mean democrats are honest about term limits you know
it's a couch potato democracy idea
we have term limits they're called elections
it's a silly notion
it doesn't work for anybody
it especially doesn't work for bob dole who's been there for what twenty eight years
thirty six years
thirty six years
and he even admitted this week that at one time he was lukewarm about it and now he's tepid
bob
he's gone from lukewarm to tepid
shouldn't the people have the right to vote for someone as many times as they want to bob
that's what ronald reagan said in nineteen eighty six as president of the united states
well he was wrong
he was wrong
seventy percent of the people are for term limits
this is hypocrisy
i agree with margaret to the extent the democrats are at least honest at being against it
the republicans are against it trent lott's against it tom delay is against it bob dole has always been against it
i don't know
did he wake up in the middle of the night one night and say gee i'm for it
and this was a charade and i think the american i think if the republicans had come into the one hundred fourth congress and really said boy we are going to put this through and pass it through the house but this they like the political benefits in the campaign but they don't like the idea and it's hypocrisy
al hunt
bob dole twenty eight years mark jesse helms twenty four years in the senate strom thurmond forty years in the senate and going for more voters are much too smart to see through this charade
those are the real hypocrites on this thing
look i don't believe in term limits
i think it's an elitist anti market view that says voters are too dumb to make decisions
it would increase the role of special lobbyists
but let me tell you something if you believe the contrary that namely we need self renewal institutional renewal it's true for all professions not just congress and it's true for instance for columnists or publishers
now i'm not for bob novak or steve forbes giving up their comfortable purchase because i'm against term limits
but if they were to do it as a matter of principle i would admire them
that's demagogic
steve can i tell them
steve forbes
yeah
steve forbes jack kemp a great conservative and principal endorser of your candidacy called term limits in nineteen ninety the cry of the losers
that's what he called them that when the republicans couldn't win the congress on their own you know then term limits became their rallying cry
he's wrong
no steve forbes is answering this bob
he doesn't need you and your verdict
just go to your room
steve
i think term limits are valid
it is a way of breaking up a culture that we do have in washington
it's not bad for a public official to have to start on a level playing field every few years
it doesn't keep people out of public life just makes sure they get renewed once in a while and the people are for it
and the politicians obviously in this town and elsewhere are against it
but if you go out on the campaign trail and you talk about changing the culture of washington either with a flat tax or term limits and people are very responsive to it
it won't help the republicans much this november for the very reason that you've outlined is that they know that in their hearts they really don't want it
so it's going to happen but it's going to happen the way we got direct election of u. s. senators
it wasn't from the u. s. senate that we got it
well i just have to stand with two great conservatives jack kemp and ronald reagan you know on this one
you're a demagogue did you know that
no i mean i just do
i mean i walk where i choose to walk you know
i mean no argument is responsible for the people who make it
but mark hey mark as a matter of principal if bob novak were to step down because he believes in term limits don't you
it's self renewal bob
don't columnists get
the way you know congress is serious about changing the culture is when they do away with their franking privileges
yeah absolutely
you're right steve
steve thank you for being with us and we'll be right back
now for the outrage of the week
i'll go first
eighty five percent of americans including seven out of ten republicans support an increase in the federal minimum wage from four dollars and twenty five cents an hour
the argument is over
this is not a debate about economic theory
for americans raising the minimum wage is a question of fundamental fairness
the outrage house republican conference chairman john boehner of ohio who said i'll commit suicide before i vote on a clean minimum wage bill bob novak
president clinton has appointed james fallows washington editor of the atlantic monthly to the federal commission on u. s. pacific trade and investment policy
fallows in his new book breaking the news lectures us all on journalistic ethics
but now he has forgotten two basic rules
one journalists do not give advice outside of their journalistic product
two journalists never ever work for the government
get it jim
margaret
a memo from the house leadership marked urgent orders committee chairmen to dig up dirt on president clinton
having lost the public's attention on whitewater despite spending three years and thirty million dollars and with their revolution stalled republicans are desperate for something to run on
when challenged on using congress this way gingrich said it was his constitutional duty
now which section of the constitution is it that allows the use of taxpayer money to finance republican dirty campaign tricks
al hunt
mark members of congress for decades have enjoyed a huge electoral advantage by using taxpayer funded frank mail
now some members principally freshmen who were supposed to be so different have found a new political perk taxpayer financed radio commercials parading as information to constituents
this is a taxpayer rip off
this is mark shields saying good night for the capital gang
hello again
welcome to the c. n. n. computer connection
i am brian nelson
on our show today
he's been called the billy the kid of the internet but a sheriff may be putting kevin mitnick behind bars for computer robbery enforcing the law by learning the tricks of the lawbreaker we will show you how the police are starting to pound a beat on the internet and ancient words come to life as the pages of the bible become sound and images on c. d. rom
people often jokingly say that computer games are addictive
well for kevin mitnick his passion for hacking has led to a criminal addiction that he says he cannot beat
last week mitnick pleaded guilty to using stolen mobile phone numbers
it is not his first plea years ago he cut a deal with the government promising to stay away from computers
well as greg lamotte now reports he couldn't
take a close look at this man
you probably don't know anything about him but he may well know some very personal things about you
he was once the world's most famous computer hacker
since the age of seventeen kevin mitnick has been arrested six times by the federal government
among other things he broke into the computers of software giant digital equipment corporation and has cracked a number of systems that included cellular phone lists and credit card numbers
mitnick has been jailed numerous times including a year long stay between nineteen eighty nine and nineteen ninety
he went through rehabilitation after that stint but soon after once again became a federal fugitive
he was on the lam for three years until he was arrested in early nineteen ninety five accused of twenty three counts of telephone and computer fraud
mitnick who is now thirty two has never physically harmed anyone never apparently profited from his scams and after cutting a deal with the government agreed to plead guilty to only one count of illegally possessing access codes in order to use cellular telephones
mitnick has said he is addicted to hacking the question is what is the motivation
i think it's a personal challenge to be able to break into a computer system because you know you are set up against the very best
breaking into an outfit that doesn't know what they are doing is easy and so it doesn't interest him and so instead of breaking into an operation like a government lab or a bank or a big corporation is really exciting and you know that you are up against minds just as sharp as yours
mitnick who did not graduate from high school has been in federal custody since february nineteen ninety five
his sentencing has been scheduled for july fifteenth but there is an ongoing investigation and federal authorities say they believe the world's most famous computer hacker will eventually face more charges
newsreel
i am martin savidge
what is e. mail to some is now free mail to others
new york based juno online services is offering free electronic mail service to anyone in the united states
all that is needed is a computer a modem and the free access software being distributed by the company
one catch advertisements
microsoft says it will include java technology in future versions of windows ninety five
java is a programming language that allows animation in electronic documents distributed on the internet
the federal communications commission plans to set aside a portion of the airwaves for unlicensed high speed communications over short distances
the move has the potential to drastically cut the cost of connecting schools and companies to the internet
the f. c. c. says the unregulated frequencies are hundreds of times faster than conventional phone lines and will make costly network wiring unnecessary
there's a new place on the web just for young women
club girl tech was launched as a place where girls ages six and up can use internet technology to create a community of peers with similar interests in technology communication and learning
the site includes a newsletter online games and access to other girl focused organizations
girl tech was launched to coincide with take your daughter to day
hewlett packard has a new series of color ink jet printers for fun printing projects at home
the desk jet six eighty two c. comes with a multi media craft kit and exclusive mickey and friends software to create greeting cards and stationery
the new printer will also make banners on a single continuous sheet of paper
i am martin savidge
and coming up next for those who do their computing in the move we will check out a couple of the latest laptops
and a little later millions of us read a newspaper every morning and now thanks to computers so can the blind
and now as part of our continuing look at computer hardware we now review a pair of compaq laptop computers the l. t. e. five thousand and the l. t. e. elite
for business people on the go a laptop is a very handy tool to have and compaq's midline offering is the l. t. e. elite
the l. t. e. elite is a sleek seventy five mghz four eight six that is both functional and durable
our test model came with compaq's smart station a base with a front loading c. d. rom and extra drive bay and on the back network and game connections
the smart station's snappiest feature though is the motorized docking
slip the elite into the base and give it a slight nudge and presto it docks itself
to get it back out touch the button on the front panel and you are portable again
the elite's keyboard is compact yet functional and it has a nice soft touch
the l. c. d. screen is a color active matrix it performs well but in some bright light environments it is a bit tough to see
the track ball mouse sits alongside the screen with the command buttons on the reverse side
some users may find it awkward and tiring but others may find it a far sight easier than an eraserhead which we will show you in a moment
the elite's other convenient laptop features a front loading three point five disk drive two stacked p. c. m. c. i. a. slots built in speaker and a one hundred twenty hour standby switch compaq software that lets you save battery life even as you work and for overburdened business people on the move the elite recharges with a simple power cord no need to carry a bulky external adaptor
now the top of the line compaq is the l. t. e. five thousand two hundred series
this is for power users people who want multi media capability as well as portability
you will have to drag around a bulky adaptor but in return you will get a one hundred twenty mghz pentium powerhouse with a standard one point three gigabyte hard drive sixteen megs of ram expandable to seventy two sixty four bit architecture a color active matrix screen built in microphone stereo speakers an infrared wireless connection and a unique modular design allowing removal of say the c. d. rom drive putting in its place a three point five inch disk drive or additional hard drive
or to save weight altogether leave your portable drives at home and put in the lightweight dummy cover
the expansion base for the l. t. e. five thousand two hundred is well equipped
it comes with two additional drive openings as well as two side by side p. c. m. c. i. a. slots
on the back game port external speaker and network connections
a couple of small drawbacks though
the docking feature on this expansion base is manual not motorized like the elite's and on the laptop there is that eraserhead demanding two handed coordination and patience
still minor shortcomings for a powerful six pound media laptop that works as superbly on the road as it does in the office
now if you are taking a laptop on the road beware
we've heard about a scam being practiced at some airports
in it two thieves get in line at a metal detector ahead of the traveler who is putting a laptop on the conveyer belt
one of the thieves passes through the detector
the other stalls emptying pockets keeping the victim in line
meanwhile the victim's computer passes through the x. ray scan and the first thief grabs it and disappears
so the best advice is don't put your laptop onto the conveyer belt until the person ahead of you has successfully passed through the detector
now still on the subject of computer crime criminals are going online to break the law and when we come back the long arm of the law stretches out to get them
you can still celebrate earth day on the world wide web visit the canopy of a peruvian rain forest a herd of bison in its native habitat or listen to what a prairie chicken sounds like
wired for conservation is the nature conservancy's new internet site
click on this world map and visit over fifty different places to learn why biodiversity is so important
another not for profit site is also an online auction a fund raiser to support the save the earth foundation
the art rock auction has one hundred twenty signed rock and roll posters prints and other memorabilia and until may twentieth you can also get a new series of prints done by the late grateful dead leader jerry garcia
earth site could be considered the official earth day internet location
it features the works of john mcconnell the environmental activist who founded the annual event
you can learn about the history of earth day read mcconnell's in his earth magna charta and browse a list of one hundred links to environmental sites on the world wide web
h. t. t. p. w. w. w. t. n. c. dot org
h. t. t. p. w. w. w. commerce dot com save earthhtml
h. t. t. p. w. w. w. earth site dot org m. c. connell
there's an old saying that it takes a thief to catch a thief
well around the world police are finding that the only way to fight computer crime is to join the ranks of the hackers
our report from jeff flock
they're taught how to search how to secure a crime scene
never put contraband weapons or guns on the floor
how to drive
but not how to surf the internet that is
and when it comes to training police officers teaching them to navigate the net may soon become as important as learning how to put on handcuffs
i would like to say it's the crime of the future but it's not it's a crime of the present that is only going to grow in the future
not sophisticated white collar computer crime though that is growing too increasingly old fashioned crimes are being carried out using the computer
that activity we believe focused on young juveniles
u. s. attorneys announced that a florida man richard romero is charged with kidnapping a thirteen year old suburban chicago boy he allegedly met on the net in a chat room like this one
the investigation down there has led us to believe that mr. romero was very very active on the internet
clue
the teenager's computer
had it not been discovered the child probably would have disappeared and probably without a trace
a computer savvy local police officer searched the boy's files and found his electronic correspondence with romero
they were both found in kentucky and the boy was returned home safely
the computer leaves a trail it leaves a documented trail of what what had occurred and what had gone through that particular machine
but do most local police know enough to follow the trail
we don't right now have any training programs on the internet
phil brankin who trains local police says today searching a crime scene should man searching the computer for evidence too
if officers are not aware that that is a possibility they could completely overlook and miss leads in a case
the f. b. i. says it is now recruiting the computer literate but wringing clues from computers may be just as important to local police fighting everyday crime in an increasingly computer driven world
i'm jeff flock c. n. n. in chicago
now you don't have to do any hacking to get information on our show here or about anything else at c. n. n.
simply go to the c. n. n. home page on the web
the address is c. n. n. dot com and you can also access our site through the a. t. and t. business network
and when we come back
all of the news that is fit to be heard
giving newspapers a voice a new computer system reads to the blind
he could part the red sea so who better to bring the bible to c. d. rom's
dennis michael reports on the latest digitized version of the ancient script
at midnight it came to pass as moses said all the first born of egypt were struck
there was not a house where there was not one dead
c. d. rom multimedia explorations of the bible are a popular part of interactive media and there are a number of different versions on the market but only one that sounds like this
moses stretched out his hand over the sea and the waters were divided and made the sea dry land
charlton heston puts his personality into charlton heston's voyage through the bible
in the latest release the old testament has features that have become standard on multimedia bible disks including scriptural text and hot links for post modern studies of ancient teachings
it also has a strong sense of place not only did heston travel to biblical sites for the shooting but the disks are strong on historical details that supplement biblical teachings
charlton heston is a reassuring presence in this c. d. rom
let's face it he's familiar with the material
i am dennis michael with the tech guide
c. d. roms are great for bringing together huge tomes of information like the bible or for encyclopedias but keeping updated on current events well a newspaper is still a pretty handy thing to have and dick wilson now reports on a clever computer system that brings three major national newspapers to the visually impaired
the simple act of reading the newspaper in the morning is something we often take for granted
but the information it contains has been unavailable to blind people until now
i use it in the morning when i am getting dressed in the morning
i have a speaker phone in my bedroom and i will just punch it in and listen to it as i am getting ready
i i love to use it and when i'm exercising downstairs
i have a speaker phone down there
marc maurer is the president of the national federation of the blind which has spent zero point five million dollars on the computerized paper
maurer demonstrated how the system works transforming three major papers into computer voices
like a voice mail delivery system digital versions of the papers are sent to computers in baltimore by six fifteen each morning
the information is sent on to regional centers where it is converted to computer voices
you can change the voice
now why would you why might you want to change that voice
you might want to change the voice because it sounds better to you or it may be that you have a hearing disability of some kind that would make it better to listen to a different kind of voice
there are nine different voices to pick from
and the reading speed can be set from slow to fast like this
the system seems much more practical than a braille newspaper since only twelve percent of the blind read braille
what would you rather have
would you rather have a paper that was printed in braille or would you rather have this new system do you think
i'd rather have this new system
yeah
and why
because you've seen the sunday times
it's maybe that fat
do you know how thick it would be in braille
maybe like this
the detailed information in the newspaper was rarely used by the blind according to marc maurer
how is this new program transforming the lives of blind people
this program will make blind people able to deal in the business community in a way that we have never been able to before
i think that expanding this program will give blind people a dimension of life that has been deprived to the blind since the beginning of time
it's changed my life in the information area but probably another very important part is the social networking part
in employment settings for a lot of blind people it's very important that you kind of get along with your colleagues and your fellow workers and one of the ways you get along with them is you talk about things of interest and a lot of that is in newspapers
the computerized newspaper for the blind also is available now in austin and houston texas as well as minneapolis minnesota and baton rouge louisiana with plans to go nationwide soon
dick wilson c. n. n. baltimore maryland
newsline for the blind also provides information on bus schedules meetings school closings and community events
and that is our show for today here at the c. n. n. computer connection thank you for joining us
i am brian nelson
and be sure to join us next week
we will take you into the future we will give you a heads up on the shape of things to come smaller faster cheaper even safer tomorrow's computer on the next edition of the c. n. n. computer connection
copyright plus nineteen ninety six by cable news network incorporated
a cease fire appears to be holding this morning between the israeli military and hezbollah fighters
c. n. n.'s brent sadler is in tyre one of the cities targeted by the israelis
he looks at the refugees returning home and brent they appear willing to stake their all on this truce
yes indeed andrea the guns fell silent local time at four o'clock a. m. in the morning and since then we've seen no sign of any air activity and the battlefront around me here has been completely quiet in sharp contrast to the blitz that's been going on here for more than two weeks
behind me you will see a steady stream of cars heading back to their villages
this exodus this shift of population has been going on for the past six or seven hours
from dawn tens of thousands of lebanese refugees took to the main road south a few hours after the cease fire came into effect
they were in a hurry
the stream of traffic passed along a route on which israeli naval shells had been falling daily
the gunfire was now silent their passage safe
as many as five hundred thousand people were going back to widespread devastation and huge bomb craters
people prayed they could get through to their embattled villages but no one knew what remained of their homes until they reached them
first they had to navigate the many obstacles created by intense air strikes in the latter days of israel's attacks on lebanon
some village communities were completely cut off
in desperation hundreds of men women and children abandoned their vehicles and attempted to reach their properties by foot
for some it meant a long trek across difficult terrain smashed by israeli artillery shells and aerial bombs
now they must start rebuilding their shattered lives
time to renew old acquaintances
in bombing south lebanon israel claimed it was gunning for hezbollah but the guerrilla force remains intact
it is lebanese civilians who have paid the highest price for the conflict
the family weeping by the roadside of the village of alman suri south of tyre paid such a price
they found that their home was hit during an air strike
the building collapsed into a pile of rubble
they had built it themselves
laylah and hassan mudelah now left with nothing
hassan is a carpenter he works for the united nations
this what his home looked like before his pride and joy
he can only hope that the lebanese government will compensate him for the loss
my life is destroyed
it's destroyed
i don't now how can i build another house out where i live
hassan's family tried to salvage what little they could
the villagers accuse israel's prime minister shimon peres of inflicting more death and destruction on civilians than they did hezbollah
nobody belongs to hezbollah in alman suri nobody
i am quite sure and i defy him
why did he do this to our village
back home they may be but for many returning refugees only more heartache
homes destroyed and livelihoods ruined
prior arrangements have made a good start
we will wait to see what happens when an international monitoring group starts work a monitoring group that will sort out any breaches of this new understanding by either hezbollah guerrillas or the israeli troops occupying the southern strip of lebanon
hezbollah is saying it will abide by the cease fire arrangements which means they should not fire katyusha rocks at northern israel israel says it won't attack lebanese civilians
so far it seems to be a good start andrea
but brent israel also stresses its continued right to defend itself
would that take precedence over the pledge not to bomb civilians
well it depends on how the hezbollah guerrillas maintain their pressure through military means against the israeli occupation of south lebanon
if hezbollah is able to use civilian areas of cover then the israelis will certainly go after them but any breaches of the agreements are supposed to be monitored by this international committee and there is supposed to be time to examine what the guerrillas do how they operate in terms of pressing on with their military campaign and whether or not israel has the right to retaliate in those kind of areas
there are lots of gray areas certainly that are going to be emerging in the coming days and weeks but it's early day this is a brand new understanding
let's see how it works out
andrea
fair enough
thank you brent
brent sadler reporting to us from tyre
spurred by remembrances of things past winning bidders now have material memories of jacqueline kennedy onassis
sotheby's of new york declared the four day auction an unqualified success
c. n. n.'s gary tuchman tells us about the auction of memories of camelot
it was ultra high stakes bidding
i have fifty sixty seventy eighty eighty five ninety thousand dollars
certainly not for the financially faint of heart
three hundred thousand dollars three hundred twenty five thousand dollars three hundred fifty thousand dollars
a rocking chair used by john f. kennedy second to last item of the entire jacqueline kennedy onassis auction
estimated value five thousand dollars
sold for four hundred ten thousand dollars
for four days item after item went for incredible multiples of original estimates
jackie onassis' diamond engagement ring
sold two million three hundred fifty five thousand dollars
her imitation pearls
fair warning at one hundred ninety
sold for one hundred ninety thousand dollars
j. f. k.'s cigar humidor
sold for
the desk where he signed the nuclear test ban treaty
auctioneer at one million three hundred thousand dollars sold
j. f. k.'s golf clubs
seven hundred thousand
thank you both
this man dropped out of the bidding at six hundred seventy five thousand dollars
i will willing to go eight hundred thousand dollars but it appeared that the other bidder was going to go to a million so i didn't want to go that high and just dropped out
the winning bidder who was bidding by phone was a kennedy by marriage arnold schwarzenegger
the kennedy children will get much of the proceeds from the auction and officials at sotheby's say john junior and caroline are pleased and surprised with how it all worked out
the success of this auction does not belong to sotheby's it belongs to mrs. onassis
it is her grace and style her dignity her courage that are behind the results of this past week
and as for the man who lost the golf clubs
one hundred and ten thousand dollars
well he won a book of presidential inaugural addresses
i'm very excited to have it
there were a lot of ecstatic successful bidders but matching their ecstasy are the people at sotheby's who estimated five million dollars for the entire sale and ended up with thirty four point five million dollars
gary tuchman c. n. n. new york
there is a new twist in the thirty four day old freemen standoff in montana
the people inside that compound got a visitor who is well known among militia supporters
joining us with the latest on this new development is c. n. n.'s don knapp
don
martin a man who helped negotiate an end to the ruby ridge standoff some four years ago is here at the ranch called justus township inside trying to negotiate an end to this standoff
over my right shoulder you can see the farm house
let's take a closer look
james bo greiz came here about ten o'clock ten fifteen mountain time this morning
he's been in there about five hours now and we presume that he's telling the freemen his plan the plan he told us about when he got here about three days ago
and he's in there listening and he's talking and he's negotiating
police escorted vehicles carrying james bo greiz randy weaver and jack mclam to the freemen ranch the motorcade stopped at a road block about a mile from the ranch
greiz and mclam got into one of the cars and drove onto the ranch property
randy weaver said the f. b. i. told him not to enter the property at least for now
through our long lens greiz and mclam could be seen entering the ranch house to begin talks with the freemen who have remained holed up on the ranch in a standoff with federal agents since march twenty fifth
an estimated eighteen to twenty six men women and children remain on the foreclosed wheat farm here in remote eastern montana
back at the road block randy weaver said greiz has to convince freemen to use the legal system they don't like
bo's been in contact through himself and friends of his have been in contact with some pretty good attorneys and they've talked about a lot of the charges and things that are against the people in here and they seem to feel that they can go into court and they can beat just darned near everything they got against these guys
greiz flew his light airplane into jordan montana thursday with weaver and mclam
the former green beret is credited with helping to negotiate an end to the nineteen ninety two ruby ridge standoff between federal agents and randy weaver
weaver's wife and son were shot and killed by federal agents after agents attempted to arrest weaver on a weapons charge
earlier in the week weaver said he came here to help those inside avoid what happened to him and his family
probably my main idea would be to let 'em know what kind of heartbreak they're in for if they go through with this you know standoff and if the f. b. i. goes in there and has to forcibly take 'em
since this all began four of the freemen on the property have come out
there have been five sets of negotiations more or less called quasi official negotiations this negotiation going on today is the first of this kind and we'll see what success they have
martin
don why do you think the f. b. i. let bo greiz in
well we don't know because a couple of days ago sources told c. n. n. there was no way greiz was going to get in
but greiz told us the other day he said that he told the f. b. i. that he didn't want to be testifying before some committee and telling them in the ashes of this why the f. b. i. would not let him negotiate
now i don't know if he actually told the f. b. i. that but that certainly would be a convincing argument
all right don knapp outside the freemen compound in montana thank you
they are everywhere daily often expensive sometimes dangerous reminders of our winter's discontent
they are making most of us angry and a few of us wealthy
they are potholes and the subject of this story from reporter jim angle
last winter seemed like it would never end and for drivers all over the country it has not
the snow and rain left some nasty scars on the nation's roads
even some pedestrians have to take evasive action
and for those who drive for a living it's an urban mine field
i've been driving a cab for thirty three years and this year it's the absolute worst i've ever seen
it's a safety issue ultimately
either the act of avoiding a pothole at high speed will cause somebody to swerve into another lane and that could cause an accident or just hitting a big enough pothole and losing control
there are no figures on how much potholes cost in accidents but there is plenty of evidence they are leaving a big dent in many drivers' bank accounts
americans will spend two billion dollars this year paying for repairs from bad roads
a lot of times you can't even see them until you're right up on them because like they be level with the road and before you know it boom
i already hit a pothole and this wheel completely came off the vehicle and broke the lug nuts and everything
this is sort of a pothole orphanage a temporary home for all those hubcaps sent flying when unsuspecting drivers plunged into a small crater
you've got three to four hundred people in a day come by here
yeah it's a circus
sometimes it's down here two blocks lined up
maybe these guys have a piece of the presidential limo
mr. clinton went golfing recently and came back two under par on hubcaps
cheaper forms of public transportation can't escape a pounding either
the cities are trying baltimore for instance has filled some seventy seven thousand potholes just since january new york one hundred twenty five thousand potholes so far
but in some cities potholes are still as plentiful as politician's promises and the spring rains will bring even more
as one street commissioner put it potholes are just like the sun they're out there every morning
jim angle for c. n. n. washington
president clinton is sharpening his rhetorical knives as he prepares for another budget battle with republicans
c. n. n. white house correspondent jill dougherty joins us now with the latest
jill
well jeanne hot on the heels of the deal that president clinton struck this week on this year's budget he's going on the offensive trying to push republicans now to work toward a deal on a seven year balanced budget
and just this past hour speaking to the nation's realtors he repeated the challenge
if you're just talking about balancing the budget there is more than enough savings in common to both these plans to do that and provide a modest tax cut
right now all we need to do is to sit down and make the agreement and i made it clear that i want to meet with the leaders of congress as soon as possible
i'm willing to meet with a big group of lawmakers or a little group of lawmakers with the leaders with the followers with the caucuses with the bipartisan groups or any group of them
but republicans claim that the president isn't serious about a real budget deal
we're prepared to talk any time the president wants to be serious
but frankly we want real reform this year with real welfare reform emphasizing work
we want real cuts in wasteful washington spending
we think it's important to get to a real balanced budget
i've seen no evidence that the white house is doing anything except offering phony numbers frankly
president clinton today has a number of other things on his mind and one of those is tomorrow sunday he's going to be testifying on the whitewater deal
he'll be it'll be in connection with the trial of his former whitewater business partner james mcdougal
the president himself is not being charged with any wrongdoing but the process could be of testifying could be lengthy and the political stakes are enormous
and we have this report from c. n. n.'s bob franken
there is constant pressure for the clintons to tell their whitewater stories under oath
the first lady did just that before a washington grand jury last january
the president gets another turn on sunday when he testifies at the white house on videotape in the trial of his former whitewater partners and his successor as governor of arkansas jim guy tucker
more than two years ago we got a brief preview
the president is not a defendant
he is testifying because the prosecution's star witness in the little rock trial david hale has implicated him in the ten year old illegal loan scheme
hale charges then governor clinton pressured him to loan three hundred thousand dollars to defendant susan mcdougal
she and her ex husband and co defendant jim mcdougal were the clinton's whitewater partners
hale who pleaded guilty to making illegal loans and made a deal with prosecutors for his testimony described on the witness stand a meeting he claims he had early in nineteen eighty six with jim mcdougal and governor clinton
they discussed he said a loan for jim and governor made to susan mcdougal's advertising company
hale went on the governor said to be sure my name cannot show up on this
it was the only encounter with clinton hale was allowed to describe in court but he has publicly spoken of others including one at the arkansas state capitol
we shook hands and they stood a minute and he asked me if i was going to be able to help he and jim out
attorneys and defendants bitterly complain their trial is merely a political attempt to get bill clinton
that's what this trial's all about
it's an effort to demean and defame the president
independent counsel kenneth starr the prominent republican whose role in the case has become increasingly controversial has repeatedly denied partisanship
it's our job to do our job as best we can in an orderly and professional way
that's what we're seeking to do
on sunday afternoon defense attornies and the independent counsel's prosecutors will grill the president
the defense attorneys will determine when they wish to play the tape to the jury
the judge has ordered the tapes sealed after that and kept secret until then
keeping that big a secret in washington is always a challenge
the president's challenge will be to discredit the testimony of david hale and discredit in the process he hopes the entire whitewater investigation
bob franken c. n. n. the white house
and the white house is asking the judge in that case not to release the actual videotapes of the testimony but to release a transcript of the statements by the president
and their fear is that republicans if they were able to get their hands on those videotapes might use them in political ads
jeanne
jill dougherty at the white house thanks for joining us
from oil and gas to off beat alternatives
we've got fuel for thought on a special edition of earth matters
ten years ago this month the worst nuclear accident in history spread radiation across much of europe
hi i'm bruce burkhardt
welcome to this special energy edition of earth matters
many predicted the chernobyl disaster would kill nuclear power and give a boost to energy alternatives like solar and wind
david mattingly tells us what has changed and what hasn't
for decades we've heard starkly different visions of america's energy future
we must seek to reduce the time required to bring nuclear plants on line
there is no longer any question that solar energy is both feasible and also cost effective
but years after electric utilities invested billions in nuclear power and environmentalists promoted solar wind and other energy alternatives neither industry has made a dent in an economy still dominated by fossil fuels
there's still significant commercial barriers to solar energy and other renewable forms of energy but the fact is it's making tremendous progress
nuclear advocates say they geared up for a jump an electric demand that never happened
with the oil embargo in nineteen seventy three we saw a major change in the projections of electricity and energy use over all and the decrease in both the need for energy and a decrease and therefore the need for electricity
coal oil and natural gas prices have remained low removing any incentive to look for new ways to generate electricity
burning fossil fuel still accounts for more than seventy percent of the nation's electric power
the carter administration and its new energy department heavily backed alternatives
but that support ended in the early years of the reagan administration
solar and wind power entrepreneurs soon fell by the wayside prompting critics to say alternatives couldn't compete without government help
supporters say that their nuclear rivals enjoy a steady stream of federal backing
it's a real mismatch in terms of the amount of money that the government has put into nuclear power and continues to
but the nuclear industry has had its own high profile problems
while the industry touts what it calls a new safer reactor design no new plans have been ordered since the nineteen seventies
many older plants now face retirement age and billions in shutdown costs
the industry is on a mission to counter a perception that it's both a financial and a safety risk
we think nuclear provides a key option that as utilities we need to take advantage of because it is the safe generation source
while the debate continues the search goes on for cleaner energy alternatives
but hydro electric power providing eight percent of the power supply is also criticized for the impact that hydro dams have on rivers endangering salmon and other fish
wind and solar are catching on in the developing world but they still provide less than one percent of the u. s. power supply
advocates say it may be a while before alternative energy has its day in the sun
for c. n. n. earth matters i'm david mattingly
when an oil tanker hits the rocks the public and t. v. cameras pay close attention but environmentalists say the biggest damage comes from the oil we spill every day one drop at a time
seven years ago it soiled alaskan beaches and scenes of stricken wildlife became a symbol of environmental outrage
but oil industry critics say that while big tanker accidents get the public's attention their total impact is a drop in the barrel compared to the oil that's spilled during normal business every day
so what people don't think about is what happens at an oil refinery
what happens when you ship oil around in a pipeline
those leak those break what happens when the oil's unloaded from a big tanker into a smaller barge
pipeline spills reported to the u. s. department of transportation average twelve million gallons of petroleum products a year more each year than the eleven million gallons spilled by the exxon valdez
the e. p. a. says over a quarter of the nation's one million underground gasoline and oil tanks leak
no one knows how much fuel is lost and smaller oil barges are responsible for two of the three worst u. s. spills since the valdez including the grounding of the north cape barge off rhode island in january
the general accounting office says there's an average of sixteen thousand small oil spills in the waterways each year half of them during loading or unloading operations
the average in recent years says g. a. o. is forty six million gallons spilled per year about four times the valdez spill
legislation to tighten safety regulations on fuel barges and the boats that tow them is pending in congress
but if a mega spill like the exxon valdez inspires headlines it also inspires action in this case the oil pollution act of nineteen ninety
in the six years since that law tightened safety and assurance standards for tankers there haven't been any valdez size disasters and the oil industry says its track record is consistently improving
the amount lost or spilled is only a small fraction of the six billion gallons of oil the u. s. consumes each year
blackwelder sees it as a multi billion dollar waste both in lost fuel and mounting cleanup expenses
we are still spilling and wasting oil
we're treating it casually
we're not treating it as if it's a precious commodity
we're giving it away
with so much oil moving daily in tankers barges and pipelines he says the spills great and small are bound to continue
when we come back let's say you've got a sixteen billion dollar budget solar panels windmills a few enemies in high places
that particular department under ms. o'leary has frittered away dollars
a whole lot of nuclear weapons and a huge mess
it's a tough job but someone's got to do it
welcome back
you know the high stakes of the energy business and the washington whirlwind of politics meet at the u. s. department of energy
it sometimes seems the d. o. e. lives in the political crossfire
well sharon collins caught up with the current chief to talk about power and politics
who's good at planting bushes here
hazel o'leary is a showman of sorts
here hold this grab the container at the bottom for me honey just hold it
from planting trees on earth day
you've got to get that mulch really down in there
that's it
here
you're on
okay now push some of that dirt in there
that's good
you could get really vigorous it's okay
that works
to talking politics
this congress the new congress doesn't get it
this energy secretary is not shy about stating her position even to the point of telling the department of energy's darkest secrets
we have declassified some one hundred nineteen separate formerly secret facts
americans had been unknowing victims of radiation exposure and experimentation
by telling them o'leary shocked and angered many government insiders
national security was a primary reason the department of energy was established
but the cold war is over
our energy needs have changed
interestingly enough at our test site in nevada which is a real you know sort of cold war flip about we have four major energy concerns now bidding for the opportunity to establish a solar farm on what was our test our nuclear test site
those firms ten years ago one would have thought to be sort of ma and pa environmentalists
the atomic program is a shadow of itself and now one of d. o. e.'s primary missions is cleaning up the mess its weapons program left behind and finding a place to store nuclear waste
we are now two years away from understanding whether or not we can build that facility at yucca mountain and when i walked through the door no one knew when we'd have the answer so i feel we're ahead of schedule by fifty percent with a below budget and i'll have an answer by nineteen ninety eight
what if the answer is no
then we start again
at least part of the problem facing the department of energy is its wide range of responsibilities
here's an agency that was building nuclear bombs at the same time it was testing windmills
that sort of mixed message is just one reason some members of congress want to get rid of d. o. e. altogether
others simply want a new chief
she's taken huge entourages with her all around the world
she's spent more than any of the other domestic secretaries in the administration
she's spent more than half of what the secretary of state spends to travel around the world and for that reason we certainly need to get that department under control
this stuff is real cover for a set of very controversial missions with which everyone does not agree
a study just released from the general accounting office indicates those missions didn't bring in the huge benefits o'leary claims
but she says her critics are missing the point that is energy development and technological opportunities are outside the united states
well i also encourage the development of oil and petroleum in other areas
that's why we're interested in the caspian basin and that's why you hear of us in turkey and azerbaijan
that's why i was in baku
tell me when the american public is going to get hit in the face with an energy crisis because right now we don't worry about filling up our cars
we don't really worry about whether the air conditioner is going to kick on in july
interestingly enough i cannot give you the answer
but i'll tell you the kinds of things that can lead to that crisis
anything that causes a supply disruption almost anything could trigger it
the last time we had the trigger was during the gulf war and that was the time that we had to dip into what's called our strategic petroleum reserve to put some oil in the marketplace and petroleum in the marketplace to dampen down prices
so it can happen by almost anything that's out of our control
if there was one thing you had to say you're most proud of that you've done since you've been here
well certainly providing the technical basis for the president's decision to end the nuclear testing as we know it today
someone said to me suppose in your obituary that's all the write about and i said i'd be happy with that
calls for her resignation continue
there is a bill pending to eliminate the department and shift its responsibilities elsewhere at least on the surface none of which seems to faze o'leary
in washington sharon collins for c. n. n. earth matters
next in the special energy edition of the reel you're paying unusually high prices for gasoline
we'll tell you why
later saying good bye to the power company
we'll show you what it takes
an uncertain future for the children of chernobyl a new report says kids born near the infamous nuclear plant have genetic mutations
scientists say their findings do not necessarily mean the children will develop health problems
but at a press conference wednesday a scientist who advises russian president yeltsin said some children are suffering
half newborn half newborn in contaminated area have some mental problem
alex yablocov also said that over the next half century people living near chernobyl will suffer higher cancer rates
that would echo patterns seen in japan after the hiroshima and nagasaki atomic bombs
people who claim the three mile island accident hurt them can seek punitive damages
two thousand law suits were filed after the nineteen seventy nine partial meltdown america's worst commercial nuclear accident
on monday the u. s. supreme court refused to cancel a lower court's ruling that allows punitive damages
so far state health studies show one adverse health affect from the accident stress
next time you fill her up you might want to fill up your wallet first
gas prices are their highest since the persian gulf war
analysts blame a shortage of crude oil new cleaner fuel rules and the usual increase in spring driving
california is hardest hit
at least one station has topped the two dollars a gallon mark
all of this prompted one paramount california station who slashed prices to sixty four cents a gallon as part of a radio promotion
the low prices meant long lines
next getting away from it all
no crowds no traffic and no utility bills roughing it in style coming up
welcome back
how would you like to be able to keep all your lights on your house comfortable your refrigerator running for free
well there is a way to do it if you're willing to say good bye to the powers that be
natalie pawelski has the story
twenty thousand acres of wilderness makes a great backyard
that's why erica frank and randall white decided to build their second home here in the north georgia mountains
they're a mile from their nearest neighbor and also from the nearest power line
all of our power our fans our lights our microwave our stove all come from our hydro electric system
this house is totally energy independent
it's powered by water and sunlight
if you can have your house lit by the water running down a stream and take your showers in water heated by the sun why would you want to bother burning fuel and exploding nuclear power and damming rivers when you get something so naturally and so easily
the house features a two story tall window that's not just for the view
this wall behind the glass absorbs the heat from the sun and then re radiates it out into the house especially at night and helps keep the house warm
floors and walls are built to retain warmth so is the water filled coffee table and solar panels on the roof
these are our solar water heaters which sit here on the roof absorbing the energy from the sun
fluid from the panels warms a vast tank of water and the water in turn circulates through the floors of the house to heat it
there's also a wood stove for backup
the house's appliances are energy efficient including a super insulated refrigerator and compact fluorescent light bulbs
they're all powered by the stream outside
six hundred feet up stream we basically have a dam and a reservoir where we collect the water
we run it in a closed pipe so that we can build pressure and we shoot the water at the fan and it spins the spins the generator and produces current
batteries store the power and an invertor converts it to standard household current
saying good bye to utility bills may sound like a great idea but it takes a lot of planning and some money too
hydro systems for example cost ten thousand dollars to fifteen thousand dollars
in this case that's less than the electric company wanted to bring in a new power line
that's $15,000 fifteen thousand dollars up front but we'll never pay an electric bill and over the years
that adds up
other considerations include finding the materials you need and craftsmen willing to work with them
that can be tough especially in small town
it took us two months to find someone who's even willing to lay the block for us
from recycled concrete outside to a water saving toilet inside this house is designed to skimp on resources
panels on the kitchen cabinets are made from recycled newspaper and soy trimmed in wood recovered from the forest floor
even the light fixtures are recycled
erica frank made them from junk yard metal
to me having that kind of combination has a bizarre elegance to it
from recycling junk to conserving energy this house is designed with the earth in mind
for c. n. n. earth matters i'm natalie pawelski
well that's all the fuel for thought we have time for
thanks for being with us
we'll see you next time on earth matters
you can contact us at earth matters one c. n. n. center atlanta georgia three oh three oh three or call us at four oh four eight two seven oh two three four or send e. mail to earthmatters c. n. n. dot com
<p>
<s> budget agreement reached </s>
i'm rowland evans
robert novak and i will question one of the republican party's leading policymakers on spending and taxing
he is congressman john kasich of ohio chairman of the house budget committee
president clinton and the republican controlled congress have finally come to agreement on spending for the current fiscal year about seven months late and after two government closes
there's a reduction in spending of twenty three billion dollars thirty billion dollars less than the president requested
and we're pleased that he signed on
we have shown that we can work together and that when we do we can get results that are good for the american people today and for our future
but when the leadership of congress insists on going it alone one party alone we get gridlock stalemate
the big question now is whether there will be agreement on a seven year balanced budget plan or even whether negotiations will resume
i want to meet with members of congress
i'll do it in a large group or a small one or one on one
but i want to finish the job
does that mean budget talks are ahead between the nineteen ninety six presidential candidates of the two major parties
we haven't made that decision
i don't think he's made that decision
this is not about talking and playing games and press conferences
we're going to prepare a budget that is going to be real reform this year not six years from now five years from now someday down the road
john kasich what's the story
what's the answer
will there be negotiations for a balanced budget deal
well bob i don't know
the reason is that we are not going to go and just waltz around the white house and you know waste time down there just pontificating and speechmaking down there
there's no point to that in giving people the sense that somehow things are going to work out
look the president is absolutely committed and addicted to washington spending and washington bureaucracy
he does not trust the american people to make decisions running their own welfare programs or programs for the poor or education
and look this is not just about some seven year green eyeshade this column and that column adding them all up
you have to change america into the twenty first century
and i can tell you that newt and i and bob dole and pete domenici are going to develop a yardstick for what we think has to be met for us to sit down and talk anymore
okay mr. chairman if you're not even sure if you're going to sit down and talk you're not going to have a budget deal
the white house keeps putting out signals that there is going to be a budget deal in the next two weeks
well bob you know the only thing worse than no budget deal is a rotten budget deal
and i would rather not have one
and you know we just accomplished something that's historic
we went through all these shutdowns and people said well what are these republicans doing
and they're not getting anywhere the bill we passed yesterday or the bill we passed this last week is a bill that saves twenty three billion dollars under the nineteen ninety five spending levels
i want to talk about
that's historic
i want to talk about that bill in a minute mr. kasich
but let's just talk for just one second more about the long range budget deal
at one point senator dole said he would sit down with president clinton one on one
the president said come on over
come on down and senator dole backed away
are you people afraid to negotiate with president clinton one on one
bob well of course we're not afraid to negotiate with him
look we sat down there for fifty plus hours
and you know what they said
well we don't think that an able bodied person between the ages of eighteen and fifty ought to go to work a couple of hours a week in order to get food stamps there is so much fundamental difference between our view of what america ought to look like in the next century and their view
let me just give it to you in a nutshell
they love washington just like it is and we want to change washington by taking power and money and influence out of this city and putting it back in the hands of the american people and they don't trust people
you know it's ironic that at the end of this century the republican cry is power to the people and their cry is power to the washington bureaucrats
mr. chairman on wednesday night leon panetta the white house chief of staff talked in very strong language about the republican performance in the last year
he said the republicans have been bullying the president this was on public broadcasting p. b. s. bullying the american people that they tried to blackmail the american people
that was a bad mistake doesn't that language coming right after agreement on the ninety six budget indicate that they are in the driver's seat and they know it
well you know rowly maybe if we had done this show a week or two ago i would have had to make some concessions
but frankly we're not bullying the american people
we're bullying the washington insiders which bill clinton is the leader of
but on my question sir
well the answer is this
we saved the most amount of money in washington spending that any congress has saved since world war two
and had we not stood firm had we not stood up to these people in this administration we would have caved in
they wanted to spend seven billion dollars more than what we spent last year and we ended up saving twenty three billion dollars
all right now we're going to
this is tough business
we're going to talk about the ninety six budget but we're still on still want to stay on the seven year this ephemeral mystical mysterious seven year balanced budget
they're good spinners
thank you chairman
they're good spinners
let me just give you another line from leon panetta who is the president's top guy on everything
he said the bobbing and weaving and dodging of your party on the seven year balanced budget plan it's not right he said they're not looking at it honestly i ask you again sir doesn't the president still have the republican majority in both houses of congress in a vice and you don't know where to go
no
is that not the answer
no i don't think so because look we have passed the line item veto the most massive change of agriculture since roosevelt was president and we're going to pass a health care bill that gives security to america's families without having to turn the program over to the government
we've just completed nineteen ninety six with historic change
you know what our problem is
they're good at spin
they could convince greg norman he won the masters
and we're
so this is all public relations
oh it's terrific public relations and they're great at it
and you know what
if we don't get better at public relations and i hear this all over the country if we don't get better at public relations we could lose the whole enchilada
but i've got news for you
we're getting better at public relations and the facts will ultimately prevail
people say never underestimate the intelligence of the american people but never overestimate the amount of information they have
we've got to get our word out
speaking of spin chairman kasich you are endangering your reputation in washington as a straight talker when you talk about this ninety six budget deal as being the best thing since world war two
there was a dear colleague letter a circular letter to republicans put out by some of the real tough conservative first term and second term members
they said this at the last hour it is frustrating to concede all of our hard work to an administration whose sole goal is to increase the size and purview of the federal government and they start off by saying on goals two thousand the clinton education program house passed zero and you in the leadership committed three hundred fifty million dollars
bob we don't want to get too stirred up here
look we killed two hundred programs
we have the lowest level of spending the most dramatic savings since world war two
how do you
i'm going to get to it let me finish the most dramatic savings since world war two
and guess what
the budget plan that i laid out a year ago has been met
now the goals two thousand program is a terrible program because it relies on washington
then why'd you give the president money
bob because we were in a struggle
we were in a struggle here to save money and we didn't achieve every single one of our goals
but i will tell you this
we got a president who fought us to have more washington spending
and let me just suggest to you bob dole becomes president and goals two thousand is gone the minute he's sworn in
let's just suspend the spin for a minute
in this dear colleague letter they talk about the direct lending program for schools
the house passed elimination
you agreed to unlimited access
that's not a compromise that's capitulation
but bob they wanted seven billion dollars more in spending and we ended up with twenty three billion dollars cuts
and these people all voted for the bill
i'll bet most of them did because you know what's amazing
in the house of representatives eliminating all of this all of this these are all programs that we killed this is historic
this is unprecedented
i've been in congress for a dozen years
we never killed programs here
and you know what
we didn't get them all
we didn't get them all
but we're going to come back and we're going to get the rest of them
john kasich when you think of the republican revolution eliminating four cabinet departments eliminating all these programs all the riders that you completely capitulated on took off the bill can you look at yourself in the morning and say hey we did well
bob first of all that is capitulating on all the riders is not correct
and you want me to go through some of the programs we killed
no you don't
you want to talk about the ones we didn't get
but you know what
we threw the net out there
we hooked the biggest fish that we have ever been able to net
you think you got a fifty to fifty deal
no i think we won
you think you got a better
look look wait a minute
we only have a minute
we only have a minute
in twelve years i've been here in congress and all we did was spend and borrow
and what we did was make a dramatic saving meet the budget cap kill two hundred programs
we'll get the rest of them
mr. chairman you said in january we only have a few seconds before we break that president clinton is not meeting the issues out there
now that you have this ninety six budget agreement do you think he is in fact meeting the issues that you are dealing with somebody who has learned something from you in the last six months and he's meeting these issues
well i don't i think that bill clinton despite the fact that we have not been very good communicators is still in trouble for this election
and i believe we will still maintain control of the house and senate because our program is a program people want
his program is one bureaucrats want
we've got to be better communicators speak in english not about things like goals two thousand but about mothers and fathers and local school houses
that's our message
we have to take a break
we have to take a break mr. chairman
when we come back after these messages we'll talk about the problems political problems confronting bob dole and the g. o. p. in the nineteen ninety six election campaign
we are going through a republican period of being in a funk
the weekly standard came out and said oh bob dole's going to lose so badly
how will we keep control of the congress i assume that was frankly an editorial mistake and they meant for that to be the satire page on the back of the magazine
congressman john kasich there is a story in friday morning's washington times saying that after his long hibernation the speaker is taking the lead again on setting policy an implication that senator dole has failed to set an agenda
is that true or false
well no i don't think it would have anything to do with bob dole
look newt gingrich is irrepressible and he isn't going to go and hide
i think what newt did is newt took some time to step back and figure out how we can be better communicators because that's what we have failed at
and newt's now emerging and saying we need to communicate more upbeat more visionary more positive and be consistent
and that's why newt is emerging
and i think we've got a good legislative agenda
we met last week bob dole pete domenici newt dick armey and i to talk about the budget
we're going to have a good exciting budget
i think we'll be all right
you've mentioned communication three times
and i understand that john kasich is going to be the chief deputy in this new set up in charge of communication
true or false
i don't have any comment today about anything like that
i take that as a yes
now all of this you can't get away from the fact that for the last couple of weeks since the end of the easter recess senator dole your nominee has had a disastrous time
what can you do to try to get him to play in the same league as president clinton
well i mean i think you go back to the russell kansas speech where he showed the nation his soul
and that was a very high mark
and we just look
how many times can you do that
well no i mean it's not the speech in russell kansas
it's the fact that you know i think one of the things republicans have to learn is to show people their soul
soul is kind of the real code word here in the nineteen nineties
and if bob dole will let people know who he is and will assemble around him an exciting twenty first century team that wants to show individual integrity and excellence and empowerment and hope and growth i think we'll win
mr. chairman bob dole said last week and i quote i am going to develop an agenda for the future maybe in bits and pieces what do you think of that
well i mean i think
i mean seriously the man running for president says he can't come out with his full agenda all at once bits and pieces
well i think it's easy rowly to just take some statement and you know what bob dole is going to do
and i've been sitting with him for the last couple of weeks listening to him talk about what he wants to do on the budget how he wants to give tax cuts to americans how he wants to take welfare back to the neighborhoods how he wants to give power back to people and pull it out of this city
and when i hear that i get very happy and very excited about his agenda
he is now about to be named officially the leader of the party
we all know he is leader
he's going to be the nominee
he's already in a fight with the majority leader of your party in the house dick armey on the minimum wage issue
bill kristol said the other day conservative republicans must not defer to dole which is what dick armey is not doing he's not deferring
is that the way your party should approach this election campaign
well i think we have to stand on republican principles
and i believe at the end of the day republicans will address the issue of wage insecurity and with stagnant wages and job insecurity
but i don't think it'll be on the agenda of you know government having a heavy hand
it's going to be in terms of economic growth policies that make sense
but is there not is there a republican ideological position on the minimum wage
and if so what is it sir
i think that the republican position in terms of traditional minimum wage is no
but
but bob dole voted yes
but the simple fact of the matter is it's not about we recognize the problem with americans getting stuck
we recognize the problem that americans are worried about the future in terms of their jobs
but we have a big program to try to solve that
and the
so you vote yes or no
what's the answer
oh no no
we're going to have we'll have an alternative
we will have a program that will
keep the minimum wage off the floor
well i don't we may actually have it on the floor
but republicans as a whole
can you keep your troops in line for that
look we're a free party
some republicans will go and vote for it
but the bulk of us are not going to vote for it
i want to ask you a practical question mr. kasich
i'd really like a frank answer on that
bill kristol the editor of the weekly standard says it's time for the republicans to bail out every man for himself
senator dole's way behind
he may not get better
if you want to keep congress you'd better run on your own
do you hear this on the hill we'd better take care of ourselves now because we're not going to win the presidency
our view is that all of us are part of the team that has to articulate the same message
to have a presidential candidate saying x. and everybody else saying y. is silly
look the message is this
we need to save our children for the future
we need to make sure they have an economy like we inherited from our parents so they have a chance secondly that we're going to deal with the problems of wage stagnation and job insecurity and thirdly we're going to do it all by giving people their money and their power back in this country
quickly what grade would you give the democrats now after a year and a half as becoming a good minority party in the congress
well does that mean empty promises and
effective effective
oh i don't i don't know
i'll give them a
he's answered it
what
we have to break
i'll give them a d.
we have to break
before we do
i'm not going to give them a good grade with all this
there's no answers here
this is the status quo
john kasich please we've got to break in a second
very quickly given the experience since bob dole clinched the nomination given his unhappy experience as the senate leader do you think he should quit as majority leader for the rest of the campaign and devote his attention to running for president
that'll be a decision he'll make along with his allies
no what do you think sir
i think he's doing fine
you want him to stay
yeah i mean if i think he's doing fine
i don't think that's the problem
thank you john kasich
we have to take a break
and when we come back we'll have the big question for the chairman of the house budget committee
the big question for john kasich
congressman you are bouncy youthful enthusiastic
you are ebullient
does this contrast between you and seventy two year old bob dole make it highly unrealistic that you could go on a dole kasich ticket
well to me it's kind of unrealistic that anybody would even ask me that question
i'm not asking that
i'm saying does that contrast make it doubtful that he could pick you
look i mean i've spent no time thinking about it
i've spent time thinking about getting this job done changing this city and getting re elected in columbus
but what i will tell you is this bob dole needs to assemble around him a young energetic visionary twenty first century team that's going to be able to have an exciting message
and it can be somebody that's going to be in a department somewhere
are you saying you'd like to run
no i'm not saying that at all
i'm just saying though that bob dole has so much experience and he's got so much wisdom but he needs to have around him some people who are younger but i don't think necessarily on his ticket rowland
i think that what he needs to have is somebody around a group around him that will communicate this is my team and it doesn't have to be his running mate
john kasich can i ask you just a plain old political question
we're coming to the end
i'd like a straight answer on it
i'll try
george voinovich the governor of ohio republican governor of ohio wants the vice presidential nomination
he'd be a great pick
don't you have to make way for him and say senator dole if it's from ohio it's got to be voinovich
bob novak i'm not interested in that job
all i'm trying to do is change the way this city works and that's what my freshmen colleagues want me to do and secondly
you didn't answer the question
get re elected
i think george voinovich would be a great pick
i think john engler would be a great pick
don't you have to make way for him though
i mean i'm not in his way
i'm not trying to get this job
i'm not interested in it
john kasich thank you very much
thank you
my partner and i
i want to fix my golf game though i'll tell you that
my partner and i will be back with a comment after these messages
you know bob in that appealing way of his john kasich is making a big effort to paint the ninety six budget deal as a great victory
but it's not going to sell that way because voters remember not what happened yesterday or the day before on the ninety six budget
they remember what newt gingrich promised would happen and that's a long distance from what happened this week
rowly it's pretty clear to me that john kasich does not want to get involved in the budget negotiations with the president
and that puts the republicans in a tough position that they look as though they don't want to deal
i'm pretty sure too he does not want one on one negotiations between bob dole and bill clinton
now bob i'm not going to say that mr. kasich didn't tell the truth because i wouldn't say that about any politician
but when we asked about the vice presidency he gave a great answer
he said dole needs youth et cetera vigor
but he said i'm not interested i'll tell you john kasich would give his left eye to be on that dole ticket
he would the only question he would not answer was has he been named as speaker gingrich's deputy for communications to try to get the message to the public
the answer is yes he has been named that
he is the best communicator
he's got good relations with the media
you are going to see a lot of john kasich in the next few weeks if they don't think they're getting their message to the public
i'm robert novak
i'm rowland evans
coming up on c. n. n. at seven o'clock p. m.
eastern capital gang with former presidential candidate steve forbes
then wolf blitzer interviews new jersey republican governor christine todd whitman
that's on inside politics weekend at seven thirty p. m.
eastern
ford means fix or recall daily for some car owners
this week on inside business turn the key and look out
ignition fires cause the biggest recall ever for a single automaker
and look out america here comes richard branson and his virgin juggernaut
the english entrepreneur aims squarely at the heart of american marketing
we'll ask him what's next
when it comes to entrepreneurs in america women are outpacing men setting up shop on their own
and hoop dreams overseas
the n. b. a.'s global mission of goodwill and profit
this is inside business with deborah marchini
welcome to inside business
if you own a ford you've undoubtedly heard the horror stories cars catching fire in the garage overnight or the steering column bursting into flame at the turn of a key
well now it's a horror story for ford
the company is recalling nearly nine million cars and trucks
it could cost the automaker as much as two hundred million dollars
ed garsten has more on the story from detroit
it'll be the biggest recall in automotive history by a single automaker
approximately eight point seven million ford cars and trucks sold in the nineteen ninety eight through ninety three model years in the united states and canada
the problem is with a twenty dollar part an ignition switch that could catch fire at any time
one of the things we found is that beginning with parts that were manufactured for the nineteen eighty eight model year there had been a change in the production process and that in turn caused some dimensions to change inside the ignition switch and the that shrinkage in dimension caused the switch to be more susceptible to electrical shorts which under some circumstances can lead to a fire
the vehicles involved are selected ford lincoln and mercury passenger cars and several sport utility vehicles
i am concerned about it but i just can't go and get rid of my car
i'll bring it
where do i take it
recall letters will soon go out giving owners details but several ford dealer service managers say the repair takes about an hour
the repairs will be made at no cost to the owners
it's ford that'll be picking up the tab and at fifty dollars to ninety dollars a piece ford's ounce of prevention will cost a pound of dollars
ford won't talk about it but one analyst estimates three hundred million dollars to three hundred fifty million dollars after taxes money he says is well spent
this management's confronting the problem up front making sure customers know it cares and putting the problem behind it
and even though ford had already recalled some two hundred forty eight thousand vehicles in canada for the same problem the company insists it's all much ado about not much
we decided to do the recall because we knew our customers were concerned about the potential fire even though the probability is very low
but it's enough so that at least one ford driver won't wait for her letter
i'll bring it in sooner
i have two grandchildren
they ride in this car
ed garsten c. n. n. detroit
branson's virgin music megastore hits time square
it's billed as the world's biggest music store but it may also be the world's most expensive billboard
it's the virgin megastore in the middle of time square and as sean callebs reports virgin and its flamboyant chairman richard branson are clearly making a statement in the heart of the big apple
at the virgin megastore in new york's time square you'll find live music as well as more than one million compact discs
virgin founder richard branson says the store is the largest music store in the world but it's not all about size
i'm generally somebody who believes that big is ugly and small is beautiful except when it comes to record stores
i think people when they go to a record store want to be absolutely certain that any record they want to buy is going to be in that particular store
shoppers will find thousands of c. d. titles c. d. roms and videos
there's even a bookstore a cafe and a travel office to book flights on branson's virgin atlantic airways
branson says thirty million tourists pass through time square every year but retail experts question if music will be on their list of sites to see
well the tourists who are there looking for t. shirts and baseball caps or are they really looking for the type of c. d. they can find in their own hometown
branson has spent more than fifteen million dollars to open the store betting the retail experts are wrong
branson brags that virgin stores in london tokyo and paris have already grown into full fledged tourist attractions and he predicts the store here will soon be a must see for time squares tourists and new yorkers alike
sean callebs c. n. n. financial news new york
coming up next you'll hear from branson himself about his plan to win over america
virgin's richard branson on music aviation endeavors
richard branson is a remarkable and controversial entrepreneur
he's taken on and beaten british airways in court
now he's taking on coca cola in times square
he was in new york this past week to open his mega record store and i asked him to answer critics who question why anyone visiting times square would pay a premium for a compact disk they could buy at home
you may be right
you made a pretty big bet that he isn't
tell me what you were thinking
i think if you can create the best in your field if you can create the best airline if you create the best record store in town i think there's always a market for the best
and i think what we're creating in times square is special
i think in the past tourists went to times square just to marvel at the signs and there wasn't much there for them to for them to actually do
now times square has been cleaned up
there's ourselves there's planet hollywood there's disney there's a lot of other things for them to do
and obviously we hope that we'll get them to come in and out of our store as well
all right but a tourist attraction only makes money one of two ways
i mean people just come to see it
you don't make any money
they have to either spend money there or pay money to get in and i know you're not charging admission
in paris for instance on the champs elysees the virgin megastore actually has more visitors than the louvre
it's the most
it has more visitors than the louvre
it's the most visited tourist spot in paris and obviously we're hoping that the virgin megastore will be the same
we don't expect everybody to buy
if they want to buy you know that's nice but if they come in one time and come back another time that's also fine
but with thirty million people coming by and the new yorkers as well i think when they find that the store is different hopefully we'll get them as well
okay how is it different
well i'll give you some examples
i'm always very frustrated
if i hear a good track on the radio i go and buy a record and i take it home and i find the other nine tracks rotten
so we've one thousand listening to it so people listen or tap through and listen before they buy it
we've got very friendly staff
they know their music
so although it's very large we've got lots of small shops within the large shop and i think it's going to be a fun place for people to come
i mentioned we've got cinema for instance as well as the cafe and other things
so if people go to the cinema they may want to buy a record afterwards
okay so sit down browse have a cup of coffee and some lunch and wander around
you can also make air reservations
am i correct travel plans
yes
obviously one thing which will help virgin in times square is it's quite loud
it is the center of new york
all the films that are made and shot in times square
virgin is trying to come and take on america not just in retail but with our airline and with our as well
which i guess kind of begs the question
you talked about the store in paris that draws more visitors than the louvre
i wonder if the store in paris actually makes money for you
another way of asking the question is do you honestly expect to make money with this store or is this a masthead announcing your presence in the united states
well the store in paris actually per square foot is the most successful store of any kind of retailer in the world
it takes over one hundred million dollars in thirty thousand
obviously we're hoping that the store in new york will be as successful but you're right
having virgin's name up in times square will help sell airline tickets and other things that we do
it's a big deal it gets you noticed
it's a good and one amusing thing was we saw the coca cola sign we're going to come and take coca cola on in america
so we've now got the virgin cola sign right opposite coca cola
so we thought we'd let them know we're coming
how many more businesses do you think you can leverage on what you've already done
i think as long as somebody else is not doing it well and normally we try to take on sort of quite fat conglomerates who are overcharging the consumer
then virgin can come in and try to shake them up
we've had great fun in the last year shaking up the financial services industry in england and we've had tremendous fun shaking up british airways
i was going to say you're shaking up a few other airlines too including some in the united states
what are your travel plans here
well we started to fly we fly to eight cities now
we're going to start flying to washington next month and johannesburg
i think perhaps most excitingly we're now going to set up an airline like southwest in europe
i mean air fares in europe have been enormously expensive
we're setting up a base in brussels
we're going to take on the european airlines who really do overcharge the consumer a lot
and virgin express will be born in about two weeks' time and traveling to nice won't be so expensive as it has been to date
what a lovely thought
thank you
on that richard branson of virgin group thank you so much for joining us this morning
thank you very much
good luck with your store
thank you
coming up next what your employer probably knows about you but doesn't want you to see
stay with us
workplace privacy not guaranteed by current law
corporations keep extensive records on their employees
that's to be expected but what employees may not expect is how often information in those records is divulged outside the company and how seldom employees themselves have a chance to review their files and correct any errors
twenty years after a presidential commission spotlighted the issue a new study indicates no improvement in employee privacy
irv chapman has more on the story
one fourth of the fortune five hundred companies surveyed by the university of illinois don't allow workers to look at their records and correct erroneous information
thirty five percent of the firms use employee medical information in making hiring decisions and it's all perfectly legal
corporate personnel records the survey of eighty four companies found often contain information gathered by private investigators ranging from interviews with gossipy neighbors to anecdotes dating back to grade school
two thirds of the companies that use investigative firms those firms obtain any information that a client wants
if they can't get it legally they'll do it surreptitiously and some of them even illegally
and the computer has made employee records far easier to access
that information about employees now is accessible across the company
people are using it for financial purposes for evaluation for medical payment
it may or may not be available to the employee and it may be transferred to other organizations
privacy advocates want to give employees to sue if their privacy is violated
business groups think that would be costly and counterproductive
this is just another case where you have plaintiff lawyers chomping at the bit to file charges or file lawsuits based on some asserted right your privacy in the private sector for up to ten thousand dollars
well it could be more than that
it could be a number of individuals at ten thousand dollars a piece
employers the chamber points out have a legal obligation to screen employees for suitability for example to keep dangerous drivers from truck driving jobs
with no bill currently before congress to enforce workplace privacy advocates hope the renewed attention will get employers to rethink their policies and workers to remember as one expert put it that sending an email in the office is like sending a post card and not a sealed letter
irv chapman c. n. n. financial news washington
women teaching ins and outs of workplace
this past thursday was take your daughter to work day and if your office was anything like ours the normal humdrum was replaced by the sound of high pitched giggles and plenty of curiosity
a growing number of these young women will enter the workplace not as employees but as entrepreneurs starting their own businesses
and as casey wian reports many are learning how from mom
every day is take your daughter to work day at freda's a specialty produce distributor
freda caplan started the business thirty five years ago
her daughter karen runs things now
many women are gashing their head on the glass ceiling in large corporations and don't have the opportunity to move up so they leave the corporate world and start their own businesses and become entrepreneurs
nationally the number of women owned businesses jumped forty three percent from nineteen eighty seven to nineteen ninety two according to the latest government report
sales grew twice as fast as those of businesses owned by men
los angeles county is home to the nation's largest number of businesses owned by women like myrna simon who has two printing franchises and employs her daughter beth
women are much more accepted in their own business and in large corporations because there's still that threat of women meeting men's salaries the men's positions and when you have your own business you don't have that threat
mary hazelrigg says starting her own business allowed her to take an extended maternity leave
she kept in touch with the office by fax
being a mother that gives me the chance to have a little more of a flexible schedule and that's something that a lot of corporations have a hard time dealing with
hazelrigg has benefited from affirmative action programs for women but she supports a state ballot initiative that would end such programs
she doesn't like the stigma attached
karen caplan disagrees saying entrepreneurial women still need help
we cannot assume that as easy a time as i've had in business will be duplicated for my daughters in the future
however i'm educating them young
like my mom i bring my daughters to work on a regular basis
they know where mom works
they know what mom does
casey wian c. n. n. financial news los angeles
coming up next green investing and america's newest global moneymaking machine the n. b. a.
welcome back to inside politics weekend
now joining us as he does every weekend bill schneider
bill the latest poll numbers
well it's not just one poll this week we have a poll of polls
we looked at all the national polls taken over the past month matching clinton against dole and we averaged them week by week
now here's what we found
clinton's lead has been growing by about two points a week for the past month
a month ago president clinton was thirteen points ahead of bob dole
now he's twenty points ahead
no wonder the republicans are in what the speaker called a funk
we've got fifteen weeks before the conventions start in august and if this keeps up dole is in danger of disappearing before the campaign even starts
so what's behind dole's drop in all of these polls
well wolf there's no evidence that americans have moved to the left
governor whitman said a few minutes ago that americans want smaller government
now if that's right bob dole ought to be doing very well but obviously he's not
so what is behind president clinton's big lead
let's take a look at the story behind the story
i think we need to fight all of our fights on various issues and hopefully carry bob dole with us
carry bob dole with us
wait a minute
isn't dole supposed to be the one who's leading
conservatives believe the country is on their side and they're right
americans still distrust big government
in a national poll taken last week by the los angeles times americans said they preferred a smaller government with fewer services over a larger government with many services by better than two to one
what president clinton has done is to seize the strategic opportunity presented to him by the republican takeover of congress
the republicans made the same mistake the democrats made in the first two years of mr. clinton's presidency they over reached
the democrats came in in nineteen ninety two with a mandate to make government work
instead their health care reform plan threatened to make matters worse
most americans were satisfied with their health care and their health insurance
they wanted the federal government to guarantee health care not take it over
the republicans came in in nineteen ninety four with a mandate to solve problems with less government but their contract with america culminating in last winter's politically disastrous government shutdown threatened to make matters worse
the main reason congress finally passed the nineteen ninety six budget this week seven months late is that congressional republicans could not afford another shutdown
republicans should have learned a lesson from the democrat's experience solve problems don't create problems
above all don't mess around with things that work like the safety net and programs popular with the middle class the kinds of programs president clinton defends in every speech
call them m. squared e. squared
the fundamental structures of medicare and medicaid and our commitments to education and a clean environment protecting medicare and medicaid and our investments in education and in the protection of the environment
m. squared medicare and medicaid e. squared education and the environment
so who does president clinton have to thank for his big lead in the polls
it's not bob dole it's newt gingrich
all right and then there's also b. squared balanced budget
i'm told by the president's closest political advisers he's going to be unrelenting in his pressure on bob dole to sit down and negotiate a seven year balanced budget
i always thought this was a republican issue
well it supposed to be a republican issue which is exactly why the president wants to take it away from them
if he can negotiate a balanced budget deal his view is what are the republicans going to hit me on
i've already signed a balanced budget
they're going to lose their biggest weapon
so the dick morris political strategy positing the president in the center seems to be working
it is working and bob dole's strategy is to push the president out of the center which he wants to occupy himself by trying to convince voters with judicial appointments and other policies that he really is a liberal
he wants to resurrect the clinton of the left that was the clinton of nineteen ninety four that lost so badly
o. k. bill schneider thanks again for joining us as you do every weekend
you'll be back next weekend
thanks for joining us for our weekend look inside politics the events the issues the battles the bytes
today bob dole's presidential effort seems to be struggling we'll get an insider's view from a key dole supporters new jersey governor christine todd whitman
then bill schneider has the story behind the story on what the real problem could be with dole's campaign
plus we will have our political roundup and mark russell
but first bob dole's presidential campaign didn't have such a good week
even some republicans are down on dole
what i see is not nearly as much forward movement and progress as i'd like to see
i mean it's time to break out of funk and boredom and molasses and get cracking get going
unless dole can really get traction against clinton and starts defining the issues against clinton very soon the race could just settle in clinton could just settle in with a ten to twelve point lead and dole may never really get in the game
dole tried to put the best face on the drumbeat of criticism
i read these things about some people are unhappy or this or that
well that happens in politics
but they'll be happier during the inaugural next year and we'll try to find tickets for everyone
and over in the senate more trouble for the majority leader presidential candidate dole faces republican mutinies on the minimum wage and on health care reform amid charges that running the senate and running for president may not go hand in hand
and now joining us new jersey's governor christine todd whitman
governor whitman thanks so much for joining us on inside politics weekend
i'm glad you made it down the new jersey turnpike
did you drive down or fly
no we flew
i know you say you don't want to be the vice presidential running mate
but what if senator dole were to come to you and say governor we really need you is there any opening there is there any opening that you might be willing to reconsider
no wolf there really isn't
i have said that i want to stay as governor of new jersey for some very real reasons
one of them is i'm having a very good time
i love it
it's a great job
and secondly because i really believe in what we're trying to do and it's going to take some time to finish it off
you can't do it all in two and one half years
there is no one person that's going to make that kind of a difference to a presidential candidate and bob dole doesn't need any particular individual
he has got his choice of a lot of extraordinarily capable people and will be picking someone that's going to add to the strength
but it's going to be bob dole against bill clinton that's really going to be the election
but the polls all show that there's this huge gender gap that on men he's doing all right but when it comes to women he's so far behind
what if he needs you you're a woman and obviously new jersey is a key battleground state that's up for grabs right now
but i have a gender gap too
i think what we're seeing is the problems the republican party has had to a degree
it's not as huge as many people would like to believe it is but it's still there and i have seen that too
so just putting a woman on the ticket isn't going to convince other women that you're suddenly doing the right thing for them
i believe the republicans just need to get their message out because what they've been doing whether it's at the state level or the federal level has been very supportive of women and their concerns and needs as family providers and wage earners and business creators and all those things
so who's your candidate
who should he pick as his vice presidential running mate
oh i wouldn't give him any one name
i would like to see him pick someone who is obviously identifiable to the rest of the country as having had executive experience someone who is a governor or was a governor or another elective office that has required managing people putting together a budget and delivering programs
someone outside the beltway
someone outside the beltway
i think that's important
so you must have a name or two that comes to your mind
well there is you know you have engler and you have voinovich and you have tommy thompson carol campbell is a former governor
there are just a whole host of people who i think would be superb
jim edgar
given the social conservatives in the republican party can he pick someone who supports a woman's right to have an abortion
absolutely
i believe that without question
the majority of the party believes that you can differ on this that the good and honest people differ on that issue that it's not a political litmus test and that even those who are pro life as are those who pro choice could support candidates on either side
governor pataki of new york says he's going to work to try to get the abortion plank out of the republican platform
do you support him on that issue
i've been working for a long time in discussions and with people in groups to recognize that you can be a good republican and be pro choice
i think we ought to focus our attention on preventing unwanted pregnancy that's a thing that we can all agree on and support groups that work to that and will help women after they get pregnant if they can't live at home find them a place to live during pregnancy so they can bring the child to term or those who can't raise a child or are scared of the adoption services
that's where we should focus our attention not on the issue of choice
so how hard a fight will you make pro choice republicans to change the platform you personally how hard a fight
i will be there for this
i think we have to as a party not because the platform necessarily in and of itself means that much because no one has really read all sixty four pages of it
but this has become a litmus test this has become such a signature issue that unless we send a signal that you can be pro choice and be a good republican we're going to lose a lot of votes in the fall
did president clinton do the right thing when he vetoed the late term abortion legislation
i would have supported that
not because i think the technique is anything that we want to see but because it's only used in cases that are extreme medical emergencies
and i have to have government determining for a doctor what procedures they can do when there really are good medical reasons to do something
it's so rarely used that that is not the issue we ought to be focusing on
we ought to be focusing on preventing unwanted pregnancies period the end
so when you say you'll support it you think the president did the right thing
i would have supported the veto
right now obviously the republican party is in turmoil
senator dole seems to have enormous problems twenty points behind in the polls
is one of the problems that he has the buchanan the pat buchanan element in the republican party and the very very tough campaign he just went through in order to get effectively the nomination
well first of all i don't think the republican party is in turmoil
i think we are amazingly strong and that bob dole is doing has done and is doing a very good job at bringing people together
obviously everyone knows we went through a very strenuous primary shall we say or certainly an active primary
but if you look at it the party has come out of that stronger
i am a believer that there is nothing wrong with the primary system and even though you get just a small percentage of the voters even republican voters out in primaries bob dole won convincingly in the vast majority of the primaries he won convincingly
and he is putting that together and i think he is going to be in very good shape as far as the republican party is concerned
should pat buchanan have a prime time speech at the republican convention in san diego
i believe there's certainly a role for pat buchanan
i don't think that he necessarily should be given a prime time slot because he is not the candidate
he didn't win
this is bob dole's convention
this is about pulling the party together healing it and going out very unified and strong from san diego in order to win against bill clinton
the focus has got to be this is about the presidency this is about defeating bill clinton and whatever enhances that and promotes that is what we want to do
there is certainly a role for pat buchanan there's no question
he is a republican and has some support
on the issue of the minimum wage which is dividing republicans itself house speaker newt gingrich and senate majority leader bob dole they seem to be struggling with their own party to come up with a cohesive stance
you favor an increase in the nation's minimum wage
well new jersey has a minimum wage that is already above the national so we're not going to be impacted
you just went up to five dollars and five cents
we're five and five five dollars and five cents and have been there for a number of years so i haven't been part of this discussion
what i want to see is action that will help people get to the point where they have a job that pays a living wage
whether that's my concern always in raising the minimum wage and what you have to balance is how many jobs is that going to preclude at the opening entry level
as we try to reform welfare and move people into jobs and into decent jobs i don't want to see those jobs start to dry up because people aren't going to be hiring part time or aren't going to be hiring as many entry level people
so you have to be careful there's a balance here
and i believe that as we look at other things that we can do to enhance people's economic stability that comes down to i think tax cuts to allow them to keep more of the money they earn
i believe it is child care credits
it may be raising the minimum wage as well as part of that overall package
but it has to be seen as a part of a package
if you were in congress you'd vote to increase the minimum wage
well it depends on how it's being presented
we haven't seen a final bill yet
from four dollars and twenty five cents to five dollars and fifteen cents over two years
but is it just a proposal that does that or does it include some other things
i'd want to see some other things included
new jersey is a relatively moderate state moderate republicans not extreme
is this notion that this republican revolution over the past couple of years since the november ninety fourth elections that there is this image out there among some critics obviously that they've been too extreme
has that hurt republicans in new jersey
well the people kept a republican majority in both houses of my legislature last year
so our legislature there is still in republican hands
so that would indicate that the public is still very supportive
if you believe polls and that's another part of that original question of bob dole being behind twenty points as being significant i'm not a great believer in that having been twenty points behind two weeks out on elections and done a little bit better than that
i don't think that it has had an impact yet very negative
there is obviously a perception that somehow republicans are against a lot of things rather than promoting a lot of things
there's some of that
it's being hyped by certain people for a whole bunch of reasons and that's a concern
but overall people like and want the kinds of things that republicans get elected on two years ago and last year which is smarter government reduced taxes and more jobs
well as bill clinton has moved towards the center over this past year he's really going after new jersey big time
he is making a lot of visits to new jersey
absolutely
a lot of visits
he's going to be up there again in june
he's going to fight
it's going to be a battle ground state no question
so if the only thing standing in the way of new jersey's going for bill clinton is governor christine todd whitman no way you're going to change your mind
that's not going to be the only thing
it's going to be performance against rhetoric and the people bob dole is going to make a very strong campaign and i believe he's going to win new jersey
and very quickly the yankees moving to new jersey
well if they want to come we'll have them
but we're not going to go out and get into a bidding war for them
governor whitman thanks so much for joining us on inside politics weekend
now time for our weekly appointment with mark russell
we are back at the monocle on capitol hill
directly behind me the loyal members of the monocle bar association
well the democrats and the republicans finally got together on a compromise budget and it's only seven months late
i don't know why they're so smug
you know italy elects three prime ministers in that period of time
well it saved the commerce department it saved the environmental protection agency only now the commerce department has been redesignated as a spotted owl
it saved the corporation for public broadcasting even though the republicans think that p. b. s. is too liberal so now julia child can only serve the right wings of the chickens and big bird has to resign his membership in the american civil liberties union
now the other day on another subject i was walking through times square in new york city and a guy tried to sell me a watch that belonged to jackie kennedy
i said no i'll take the rocking chair and the humidor by the time i got over to sotheby's auction house the only thing that was left was the fly swatter once owned by lady bird johnson
you've got to go a long way to find something more tasteless than this auction ladies and gentlemen little caroline's baby bib with the spit up still on it for fifty five thousand dollars
i mean you get the idea
they're getting one hundred thousand dollars for things you have to get with one of those claw machines on the boardwalk and that jackie and aristotle used to sit around the yacht watching the home shopper's network
hey wolf nice watch
thanks mark russell
it is a nice watch and it was not that expensive
good day and welcome to managing
i'm jan hopkins in for lou dobbs
today hollywood giants and small studios teaming up to reduce risk and new media creating opportunities for entrepreneurs
but first shareholders are speaking up and companies are listening
this share shareholder groups have put forth a record number of proposals on corporate governance a fifty percent increase from last year
kitty pilgrim takes a look at what's behind this new wave of activism and what they hope to achieve
labor unions and the investors rights association of america a group representing small shareholders are responsible for ninety three percent of the proposals on corporate ballots this year
the unions are doing somewhat better this year
they've really increased a number of their proposals
but the pension funds have backed off the state funds have backed off
so it's really been up to the small shareholder to introduce proxy resolutions and go to the annual meetings and present them
the iraa has a reputation for attacking perks given to board members including pensions for board members who are not company employees and staggered terms for board members which make it impossible for shareholders to replace an entire board at once
the union argument with billions of dollars of their members' money at stake activism makes sense
but some companies accuse them of simply trying to put management on the defensive to gain leverage in contract talks
nonetheless consultants say corporate america is responding
we're also doing a lot more analytical work to help companies understand who their owners are and what the characteristics of their owners are
it's the same kind of research companies have always done on their customers but now it's aimed at their owners
it's also a sign that they're recognizing the power of their shareholders and accepting that it's often easier to negotiate than fight
kitty pilgrim c. n. n. financial news new york
treat your waiters like your clients invite them to dinner give them thoughtful presents
quite unusual for sure
but special treatment pays handsome benefits
beverly schuch explains how the owners of chanterelle in new york encourage first class service
dinner hour at one of new york's favorite restaurants chanterelle
customers love the exquisite cuisine the tranquil setting and the flawless service that creates a memorable dining experience
sixteen years ago newlyweds david and karen waltuck decided to open a restaurant in an artsy neighborhood in new york city
we wanted a small little place in a unobtrusive inexpensive neighborhood which is what soho was at the time and so we found our little space and we opened up on grand street
ten years later soho had become fashionable and so had canterelle
it moved to larger quarters in tribeca another trendy artistic neighborhood
we wanted a formal elegant place but we wanted it unpretentious and not condescending
david runs the kitchen while karen presides over the front of the house
i think that a restaurant is really a partnership between the dining room and the kitchen and great food can be really undermined by the front of the house if it's not served to a person you know really in an elegant and appreciative way
the couple wisely realized that fine food and elegant decor were not the only ingredients necessary for long term success
chanterelle is now one of new york's top rated restaurants and also tops the menu in quality of service
karen says the people who serve customers are key to setting the tone for the restaurant
it's not enough to merely hire skilled workers they must also be smart eager warm and knowledgeable
attentive servers must be able to respond to the various moods of dinner guests from business entertainment to romantic celebrations and management has a responsibility for completing the equation
staff members must be treated like prized partners in the enterprise
discontent like happiness is contagious
as david says bitterness gets in the soup and i think that it also just gets permeates everything and if you treat yourself well they'll treat your clients well
the waltucks work hard at putting philosophy in practice
they create a family like atmosphere
training for front of the house staff is oriented toward hands on learning
every staff member is invited to dinner with a guest so that they can actually experience the little things that enhance a dining experience
showing appreciation for a job well done means more than a few bucks at christmas and an occasional pat on the back
basically it has to be an ongoing thing what you serve your staff for a staff meal how do you say thank you even the baker making something wonderful for them because she feels like it saying thank you for special you know with special gifts in an individual way
christmas gifts are personal reflecting the individual
i remember one staff member being very very fond of classical music but she'd never been to the opera and i love opera and so i got her you know tickets to don giovanni
david and karen encourage outside interests
they know their people like to travel or work in the theater or take photographs
each person may take time off to pursue their interests and know they will be welcomed back to the family
it's hardly surprising that staff turnover is low
i think it's important to realize that the staff that you're working with are also human beings
they're not mannequins
for managing i'm beverly schuch c. n. n. financial news
in the story it was mentioned that you started this restaurant not having owned a restaurant before
right
how do you start something like this
don't you have to have a lot of financial backing or other kind of backing
actually we had very little at the outset and we went into an area that was very undeveloped at the time
soho was really no man's land in seventy nine and my husband wanted to run a restaurant and i
he was a chef and was working at other restaurants
exactly
he was a chef and i'd always worked with people and he's very shy and i really enjoy it so it was the perfect marriage as it were
but it takes money
you had to at least lease space
we had but at that time it was eight hundred fifty dollars a month for rent
wow that's cheap in new york
yes it is
everybody out there doesn't realize that
and we did all the work ourselves and family and friends helped and so really it was a shoestring
i don't know if it's that easy nowadays but in seventy nine it was
well a lot of restaurants i think probably the most common small business that people start is a restaurant and the failure rate is huge
you've been very successful four stars highly rated service how do you attain that kind of quality
i think first of all it has to be really a labor of love
i also think one of the things that helps is something that's quite known in france where it's like a team the dining room and kitchen has sort of natural animosities and if you can have the team sort of one that really eliminates
and therefore it helps to have the husband in the kitchen and the wife in the front room
i think so which is very common in france actually
so we had that and i think ultimately besides having a talented chef i think it has to do with how you treat your staff frankly
that was part of what they were talking about in the story that you allow people time to go elsewhere and come back you encourage it and they stick around as a result
they give you good service for you treating them well
yes i think so
i mean we're in a wonderful wonderful city and there's a large number of people to draw on here of all kinds of backgrounds and you can find obviously given really quality staff and then from there i think the key is to hire really intelligent people that will bring something very special to their service and treating them well you know
paying them well
paying them well treating them well respecting them professionally having always your ear there you know inviting them for dinner so they can see that they're not working in a vacuum
all that like adds to it
any plans to expand
oh no
we're very happy small
i think that's important too because if you you want to touch every table on their own terms and i think it's hard to do larger
so this is large for us
our new place is like seventeen tables
we were originally ten
so that's plenty big for us
thanks very much
karen waltuck co owner of chanterelle in new york thanks for joining us
thank you
new media is the fastest growing industry in the u. s. rhonda schaffler takes a look at the tremendous opportunities for artists entrepreneurs and even cyber preachers on this new frontier
what a comfort it is to know people that god is here
it's old time gospel radio with a cyber twist
it is time according to deacon danny for your e. mail
reverend billy preaches on the internet
he's one of the seventy two thousand who found work in the new york based new media industry providing content software and services for the internet
it's a big industry of small businesses
most of the activity is really coming from startups
they're averaging under zero point five million dollars in revenues somewhere between ten and fifteen employees very young people
who together generated three point eight billion dollars in revenue last year
the coopers and lybrand survey projects that over the next three years revenue will double each year far surpassing growth in the traditional mediums of broadcast and print
we're at the epicenter of an emerging new medium in terms of entertainment how you entertain people
the average salary for a new media employee is thirty one thousand dollars a year and employment opportunities are plentiful
job growth is projected at thirty percent a year through nineteen ninety eight
and i would say that's probably the fastest growing industry in the country
to put that in some perspective total employment in the economy is growing at about a one and a half percent annual rate
analysts say it's too early to predict when the new media industry's growth will slow
demand for content is high and young entrepreneurs are coming up with new uses for the internet
in your mind in your imagination it's the limit in terms of what kind of things can be invented in this new environment
rhonda schaffler c. n. n. financial news new york
there's also money to be made in the hills of hollywood but with the cost of a feature film at nearly fifty million dollars one big budget flop can wipe out an entire year's profits for a company
casey wyan reports some studios are teaming up to spread the risk
m. g. m.'s upcoming movie mulholland falls cost about forty million dollars to make but m. g. m. put up less than half the money
the rest came from barr potter in largo entertainment a small company that shares the cost of producing movies in exchange for rights to international profits
the economics of the industry are changing
pictures and leasing costs are becoming more expensive
but also there's a situation where a number of the studios are changing hands
potter says movie co financing is especially popular with studios that are for sale
they're eager to limit the risk of increasingly expensive films by splitting costs and profits like m. g. m. which is now on the auction block
if mulholland falls falls at the box office m. g. m.'s new owners are protected
before m. c. a. universal was sold to seagrams last year it agreed to share the cost of twister a seventy five million dollars potential block buster with competitor warner brothers
even studios flush with money like disney are co financing films
typically hollywood players are in for big risks because they want big reward
so if you make a big risk and it pays off you are a hero
of course if the picture dies then you're looking for a new job
i think that hollywood has gotten a little more of a corporate mentality in recent years and corporate mentality always spells caution
take braveheart which won five academy awards this year
paramount got much of the credit for distributing braveheart in the united states but it only put up a third of the budget
twentieth century fox paid the rest for international rights
now both could see profits exceeding fifty million dollars
casey wyan c. n. n. financial news los angeles
from a busy office to a quiet river in the new jersey countryside a former a. t. and t. employee goes fishing for a new career
that's coming up
corporate downsizing has cost jobs across the united states
middle managers often find themselves out of work
maryann mcrae has a story of one such man but this story comes with a twist
this was john thomas a month ago during his last week at a. t. and t.
this is john thomas today no suit no tie no paper work just him in the quiet of the pequonnock river
i spent forty years at a. t. and t. and i can only think of three occasions where i worked for people that allowed me as an individual to just go fly free and produce whatever you know and just be creative
thomas is one of fifteen thousand involuntary casualties laid off when a. t. and t. decided recently to eliminate forty thousand jobs
i wake up at six fifteen and ready to go work and then i realize there's no work to go to
but he's not idle
the fifty nine year old grandfather hopes to turn a hobby into a career
fly fishing compared to like bay fishing and spin fishing is like a ballet compared to a break dance
thomas has teamed up with john houghtaling the owner of fly fishing plus to teach fly casting
so it's going to be one two three
he's quite a caster and he knows the mechanics of it
he's dissected it
he's taken it apart
so that he can teach that to somebody else including myself who is not that great of a caster
it's timing and it's technique
it's not strength
it's a skill
and it's making the artificial fly alight on the water like a real one not an easy feat
fly casting is an art says thomas as are the flies themselves
they're tied with different types of material such as rabbit hair pheasant feathers and as it swirls down the stream the trout sees it and he goes up and he eats it
this is how you would tie your fly to the end of the line
thomas says he brought a wealth of skills from a. t. and t. some of which he applies in teaching fly casting
he knows his material and he's personable so he's really fun
i like to talk about the casting and trying to figure out what to do on that
so do thomas
he feels a little lost without his corporate identity but he says if his fly casting career takes off he won't miss the old job a bit
maryann mcrae c. n. n. riverdale new jersey
that's managing for this week thanks for joining us
it's easy to stay on forms by logging onto c. n. n. f. n. on the worldwide web c. n. n. f. n. dot com
you can reach our site through the a. t. and t. business network
join us again next week
good day from new york
the on again off again courtship of bell atlantic and nynex finally culminating in vows of marriage
valued at twenty three billion dollars it is the biggest deal ever in the telecommunications industry and overshadows the merger between s. b. c. communications and pacific telesis announced earlier this month
but the deal also raises questions about whether the telecommunications reform bill is creating or crushing competition
katharine barrett has the details
cameras flashed like an electrical storm at the birth of the world's fourth largest phone company
the chairman of both the old and new bell atlantic touted the attractions of his expanded thirteen state empire
this is the most information intensive piece of real estate on the planet full of knowledge workers and telecommuters and internet users and is the world's financial media culture and political center
it was billed as a merger of equals but the name and majority stake belong to bell atlantic
nynex shareholders must swap their stock at a discount but will keep their healthy dividend
the reality was the market thought bell atlantic would have paid a higher price
since it hasn't nynex is down bell atlantic is up
once that news has been ingested in the market i don't see a lot of upside or downside for these stocks
other analysts thought earnings growth would improve dramatically as the companies wring out nine hundred million dollars in cost savings over the next three years and exploit new opportunities in long distance service cable and interactive technology
some see this as reuniting a family that broke up with a. t. and t. in nineteen eighty four
as far as we're concerned this is the rejoining of two twins that were separated at birth
it was a very natural fit
more than a dozen state and federal regulators must approve this deal
it could take as much as a year to close and will cost as many as three thousand middle management jobs
but after initial opposition the union for both companies now says it supports the deal
this deal took more than five months to negotiate
it will take a good deal more planning and management skill to achieve the ambitious goals of around the world calling entertainment and information services
katharine barrett c. n. n. financial news new york
for the week bell atlantic shares gained seventy five cents
nynex shares lost three and one eighth
a show of momentum in the nation's capital congress finally approving the nineteen ninety six budget after two memorable government shutdowns and seven months of protracted negotiations
the compromise agreement does cut spending by twenty three billion dollars but also restores funds for job training education and environmental protection
with the one year budget out of the way the attention now shifts to an even bigger challenge agreeing on a seven year deal
irv chapman has the story
just before the house of representatives voted overwhelmingly to pass the final spending bill for nineteen ninety six president clinton urged republican leaders to negotiate on a seven year balanced budget
i want to meet with members of congress
i'll do it in a large group or a small one or one on one but i want to finish the job
we have an opportunity
we can't let it slip from our grasp
as the president spoke republican leaders concluded a meeting on the terrace of majority leader dole's senate office
our leaders are not going to be meeting with the president until we have a budget that we've agreed upon that we know gets us to the right place and is not the president's budget
we're trying to put together a good solid budget and if we put together a good solid budget and the president wants to discuss it we'd be very happy to discuss it with him
earlier budget moderates were among those who saw the nineteen ninety six deal as cause for optimism
now we have the republicans have moved towards this the president have moved towards this
we're in the ballpark now of being able to get a legitimate numbers agreement with appropriate policy that goes with the numbers
we're there
but some republicans who fared badly in the year's budget battle fear another round of budget brinkmanship would work to the president's advantage
still republican leader dole rates the chances for a budget agreement at fifty to fifty
reasons not to expect a deal rank from the enormous distrust many republicans have for the white house to the impossibility of making major changes in big ticket items like medical spending as both parties carve their election year positions in stone
irv chapman c. n. n. financial news washington
and coming up next congress is patting itself on the back for passing this year's budget but are hopes for progress ahead justified
my guest greg valliere joins me to discuss that issue and more
stay with us
the latest numbers on the economy add up to a healthy picture the nation's trade deficit shrinking seventeen percent in february after a big surge the month before
strong aircraft orders helping narrow the gap between exports and imports
and sales of previously owned homes surged nearly seven percent last month as buyers rushed to lock in low interest rates
the state of the economy and progress on the balanced budget and proposals for a higher minimum wage just a few of the topics being debated on capitol hill these days and joining me now with his views is greg valliere
he is director of the washington research group
and welcome greg
thanks
all right
we've had you know in this past year we've had vetoes we've had you know partial shutdowns threats of default of the government
has the republican revolution come through this budget compromise
well i'd say it's on life support
it was really a spectacular failure i think by the republicans
the deal we got this week is better than nothing
the fiscal year is over half over but at least we got this resolved
well social programs public broadcasting environment who are the winners who are the losers in this budget
well if you really want to get technical and arcane on the budget i think that some of president clinton's spending priorities were nicked
they were slashed a little bit
but i think the big loser in terms of p. r. and politics were the republicans
they were portrayed during the winter as extreme
their effort to shut the government failed
and clinton now is riding very high in the polls
all right
the democrats tried to attach the minimum wage plan to the budget and that failed
but they have vowed to bring it up every day
you bet
on every issue it'll be brought up and economists can debate endlessly the economic merits of the minimum wage increase but the political merits are irrefutable
something like eighty percent of the public favors an increase
so the democrats know they have a winner and they're not going to stop
they'll put it on every bill
what do the republicans have to do
there appears to be quite a bit of divisiveness in the party
yeah they really do
and of course it's only late april and it's far too early to write an obituary for them for november but they really have to get their act together
there's quite a bit of friction within the party whether you bring up minimum wage or whether you try again for a great big budget package a seven year deal
and you know it seems like the most ironically the most the biggest change to come out this whole budget agreement this year is you've got a democratic president now who is calling for a balanced budget agreement
yeah in my respects clinton has hijacked the republican agenda very adroitly
now we're even hearing that clinton is perhaps going to talk about a stimulative package of tax cuts including capital gains
there's a report out that i personally believe that later in the spring clinton may call for this
and he's putting a lot of pressure on senator dole
yes he is
and dole the other great irony is that pat buchanan was the one who raised the issue of economic anxiety an issue that the democrats are running with right now
it took them seven months to get a budget for this year
do you think that they'll get a seven year agreement by election time
well they're going to make one last college try
i'd say between now and memorial day you'll hear a lot of proposals like the clinton one that could call for tax cuts
the republicans again are divided
they don't know whether they want simply a veto fight or if they want a real deal
i do think there's maybe a one in three chance that we could get a spectacular deal before summer
you know it seemed that if we had a budget agreement there would be some fear taken out of the bond market but we haven't seen that
yeah i'll be contrarian on that
i have a hunch that if there were a deal the bond market would look very cynically at it because the real pain would be in the year two thousand whereas you'd get some goodies some preelection tax cuts this year
and i think the bond market would view it fairly negatively
and what about reaction in other markets if we get a seven year deal
well if you at least begin to get a handle on entitlements medicare medicaid social security that is a positive and if you got capital gains relief that's a positive as well
but i think the interest rate markets would think that once again we're getting dessert first and the broccoli later
all right
thank you greg valliere
okay you bet
director of the washington research group
thanks for joining us today on moneyweek
and when we come back out of a job but not for long
entertain veteran frank biondi has a new business card with an m. c. a. printed beneath his name
a seasoned executive in the entertainment world frank biondi can stop waiting for the phone to ring
biondi is signing on as chairman of m. c. a. after being forced out of viacom about three months ago
the position at m. c. a. has been empty even longer but biondi was waiting for the green light from his former boss at viacom
donald van de mark has our report
frank biondi is back in business
the veteran entertainment executive joins the seagram company effective immediately where he'll run m. c. a. for edgar bronfman junior
biondi was caught in a tug of war between sumner redstone who fired him from viacom in january and bronfman who was searching for a chief executive for m. c. a.
there really was no price attached to this
i think sumner very generously decided that if he wanted to do the right thing that the time had come to do that
clearly he's had a long relationship with frank wanted to see frank get on with his life and just called us up and said look i've been thinking about this and i made a decision i think you'll like which is i would like to give frank the opportunity to work for you
redstone wanted business concessions from m. c. a. in return for freeing biondi from a non compete clause in his contract
but bronfman appears to have won that confrontation and wall street likes it
if you look at it in terms of the the stock my guess is that this will help the stock just that air of confidence that frank biondi brings to people in the financial community
m. c. a. and viacom have a number of cable partnerships including joint ownership of the u. s. a. network
the two entertainment giants are also reportedly squabbling over t. v. land a new cable channel viacom is launching
for now chalk one up for m. c. a.
frank biondi is a seasoned executive respected by both hollywood and wall street and edgar bronfman junior appears to have landed him without giving up a thing
donald van de mark c. n. n. financial news new york
and finally dayton hudson raised eyebrows on wall street this week saying it received a hostile buyout bid from j. c. penney back in february
dayton's board rejected the offer of nearly seven billion dollars and myron kandel joins me now with his thoughts on this unusual story
mike
well bev chalk up another example of corporate arrogance
i think dayton hudson short changed its shareholders by not disclosing until thursday that j. c. penney had made a takeover offer back in february
dayton hudson opened itself up to shareholder suits and it reinforced the impression that its chairman and chief executive robert elrich believes in a close to the vest hunkered down policy of corporate management
even more important than that is the cavalier attitude the company's board of directors has taken toward shareholders by failing to disclose promptly a respectable takeover offer from a reputable company
i think such an event is certainly material enough to warrant prompt disclosure
but dayton hudson chose to do otherwise until the minneapolis star tribune broke the story
i'm not questioning the board's decision to reject the offer
that's up to its discretion
but not disclosing it is against the best interests of the shareholders who after all are the owners of the company
i just wonder who is advising elrich and his board to take such an ill advised posture
bev
and how did j. c. penney fare in all this
not much better
they weren't talking very much either
all right
thank you myron
unusual story
well that is moneyweek for this week
i'm beverly schuch sitting in for lou dobbs
good day from new york
on the border between israel and lebanon a fragile cease fire that's just hours old has silenced the sound of war replacing it with the sound of trampling feet as tens of thousands refugees head home
most of the refugees are lebanese returning to villages devastated by israeli tanks and missiles
c. n. n.'s brent sadler has more
from dawn tens of thousands of lebanese refugees took to the main road south a few hours after the cease fire came into effect
they were in a hurry
the stream of traffic passed along a route on which israeli navel shells had been falling daily
the gunfire was now silent their passage safe
as many as five hundred thousand people were going back to widespread devastation and huge bomb craters
people prayed they could get through to their embattled villages but no one knew what remained of their homes until they reached them
first they had to navigate the many obstacles created by intense air strikes in the latter days of israel's attacks on lebanon
some village communities were completely cut off
in desperation hundreds of men women and children abandoned their vehicles and attempted to reach their properties by foot
for some it meant a long trek across difficult terrain smashed by israeli artillery shells and aerial bombs
now they must start rebuilding their shattered lives
time to renew old acquaintances
in bombing south lebanon israel claimed it was gunning for hezbollah
but the guerrilla force remains in tact
it is lebanese civilians who have paid the highest price for the conflict
this family weeping by the roadside at the village of almansuri south of tyre paid such a price
they found that their home was hit during an air strike
the building collapsed into a pile of rubble
they had built it themselves
leila and hassen madeli now left with nothing
hassen is a carpenter
he works for the united nations
this is what his home looked like before his pride and joy
he can only hope that the lebanese government will compensate him for the loss
my life is destroyed it's destroyed
i don't know how can i build another house out where i live
hassen's family tried to salvage what little they could
the villagers accuse israel's prime minister shimon peres of inflicting more death and destruction on civilians than they did hezbollah
nobody belongs to hezbollah in almansuri nobody
i'm quite sure and i defy him
why did he do this to our village
back home they may be but for many returning refugees only more heartache homes destroyed and livelihoods ruined
brent sadler c. n. n. tyre south lebanon
just a few miles inside israel residents of qiryat shemona are not as quick to return to their homes
just before the cease fire was to take hold hezbollah guerrillas fired a final rocket into the village
however both israeli and hezbollah guns remain silent as the day wanes to a close
even so some nervous israelis say they will spend a few more days inside the bomb shelters where they have lived the past two weeks
and now that the fighting between israel and hezbollah has halted at least for the moment israeli prime minister shimon peres can turn back to the matters of state
he leaves for the u. s. tonight and a late evening meeting with president clinton scheduled for tomorrow
mr. peres is also scheduled to meet with defense secretary william perry and secretary of state warren christopher
while jacqueline kennedy onassis' estate was pulling in millions of dollars in new york another auction was held this week this one a bit racier perhaps and raised money for a good cause
c. n. n.'s janine sharell has more on today's all about women report
one hundred dollars on the bustier one hundred dollars
where's the one hundred fifty dollars on the bustier
you heard that right
underwear is flying off this runway for hundreds of dollars and it's for a good cause
all proceeds from tonight's auction will benefit one of the nation's most famous and unique establishments the national museum of women in the arts
the national museum of women in the arts was started nearly ten years ago by wilhelmina cole holladay
people like what they know so our job hopefully is to educate people so they will know the art by women and like what they know
people liked what they saw at this fund raiser
these bustiers by designers from cynthia rowley to oscar de la renta helped rake in more than sixteen thousand dollars for the museum
not everybody here was bidding for an undergarment though
do you own a bustier
i do actually but i don't wear it very often
bustiers can be quite uncomfortable i find
i think i'm a bit old for a bustier but there might be some other things in the silent auction that will interest me
artist faith ringgold picked up an award for her achievements
ringgold's art is actually created on quilts and tells a story
i really appreciate receiving this award
i know it's not any intimate apparel i could wear
the wearable art at this auction was part fund raiser and part public relations event for the lingerie industry
it's an affordable luxury and also it's a necessity and over the past five years our business has increased thirty percent
victoria's secret and nancy ganz the founder of bodyslimmers were also recognized for revitalizing the business
you have to be an artist to wear underwear well
i design underwear that makes you look like an artist
ganz is beyond wearing her own product
she's nine months pregnant
but for the true artist all of life is inspiration
you don't want to control your tummy but the rest of you you want to control so i have a lot of ideas for pregnancy maternity clothes
ganz took away an award but gave back a leopard bustier and butt boosting bottom for auction
sold for one hundred dollars thank you
a good way to boost any bottom line
janine sharell c. n. n. new york
well president clinton is getting ready to take the witness stand electronically at least in a trial stemming from the whitewater investigation
mr. clinton will be questioned by defense and prosecution lawyers at the white house tomorrow on videotape
c. n. n.'s bob franken has our report
there is constant pressure for the clintons to tell their whitewater stories under oath
the first lady did just that before a washington grand jury last january
the president gets another turn on sunday when he testifies at the white house on videotape in the trial of his former whitewater partners and his successor as governor of arkansas jim guy tucker
more than two years ago we got a brief preview
the president is not a defendant
he is testifying because the prosecution's star witness in the little rock trial david hale has implicated him in the ten year old illegal loan scheme
hale charges then governor clinton pressured him to loan three hundred thousand dollars to defendant susan mcdougal
she and her ex husband and co defendant jim mcdougal were the clintons' whitewater partners
hale who pleaded guilty to making illegal loans and made a deal with prosecutors for his testimony described on the witness stand a meeting he claims he had early in nineteen eighty six with jim mcdougal and governor clinton
they discussed he said a loan for jim and the governor made to susan mcdougal's advertising company
hale went on
the governor said to be sure my name cannot show up on this
it was the only encounter with clinton hale was allowed to describe in court but he has publicly spoken of others including one at the arkansas state capitol
he just came over we shook hands and visited a minute and he asked me if i was going to be able to help he and jim out
attorneys and defendants bitterly complained that their trial is merely a political attempt to get bill clinton
that's what this trial is all about is an effort to demean and defame the president
independent counsel kenneth starr the prominent republican whose role in the case has become increasingly controversial has repeatedly denied partisanship
it's our job to do our job as best we can in an orderly and professional way and that's what we're seeking to do
on sunday afternoon defense attorneys and the independent counsel's prosecutors will grill the president
the defense attorneys will determine when they wish to play the tape to the jury
the judges ordered the tapes sealed after that and kept secret until then
keeping that big a secret in washington is always a challenge
the president's challenge will be to discredit the testimony of david hale and discredit in the process he hopes the entire whitewater investigation
bob franken c. n. n. the white house
president clinton's likely challenger was asked his reaction to the taped testimony but bob dole exercised his right to be tight lipped and had no mud to sling
i don't engage in that kind of politics so i'm not going to say a thing
i haven't
i haven't talked about whitewater at all don't intend to at this stage
as far as i know he's doing what he said he would do and that's fine with me
but house speaker newt gingrich may be digging for fresh dirt on the clinton administration
c. n. n. has obtained a memo from gingrich's office which urgently presses for any information about waste fraud and abuse in the clinton administration or examples of dishonesty or ethical lapses a spokeswoman for the house speaker says gingrich feels that republicans should be more aggressive in this area g. o. p. spokesmen say the memo was a routine request although one democratic aide called the memo dirtball politics
hello i'm carolyn o'neil and welcome to the on the menu
i'm in white sulphur springs west virginia at the greenbrier resort which was originally founded two hundred eighteen years ago
there's a lot of history here and making history for food lovers today lavarenne cooking school held every year at the greenbrier
most come for the mountain air the championship golf the luxury accommodations and rejuvenation at the spa
but this enthusiastic crowd gathered at the greenbrier resort in white sulphur springs is here for another reason they love to cook
powdered sugar first
for two months each year cook book author anne willan of the lavarenne cooking school in france brings her week long culinary course to this grand hotel in west virginia
we need raspberries
we need whipped cream
cooking it seems is making a comeback
i'm always enormously reassured coming here because one gets back in contact with people who actually cook and who cook at home and who cook for their families
so just cutting down the center then crosswise in half
i just enjoy cooking and i enjoy watching the chefs and how they their different techniques
to make a little ruffle or a little rose
i cook a lot and i just retired the first of this year so i'll cook even more
skip lewis has come every year for six years
this is barbara cromwell's third
i came three years ago and that was supposed to be once in a lifetime and then i came last year and i came back this year
this year four hundred students will whisk and chop their way through lavarenne at the greenbrier doing some of their own cooking and then witnessing the culinary genius of visiting food greats such as walter scheib the executive chef at the white house
and finish off with two little chives
you'll see as we go through that i always like to get at last two or three different textures and two or three different colors in each plate not only because it tastes good but just as importantly it appears good
you get excited about seeing it oh i want to try that
also starring at lavarenne this week graham kerr
formerly known as the galloping gourmet kerr demonstrated his enthusiasm for low fat and vegetarian cooking
meeting culinary celebrities is certainly part of the draw
louise l. o. u. i s. e.
yes sir
this is walter's signature
he just wrote good luck and great cooking
that's his signature
but these serious cooks are after more than autographs
they want recipe secrets even top secrets from the white house
can you tell us a little more about how you made that sauce
and after the slicing and dicing and careful consideration in class there's plenty of time to taste
i really wish you could try this
this is of course just for research purposes here
it's education for the senses from tasting sherry wine vinegar and cheese souffle to wine tastings where students learn to discern components of a wine's character
and that's what makes this win a multi dimensional wine as opposed to you know a very simple uncomplicated one
and in the evening class is still in session
the flavors are just wonderful
the blending of flavors in the lobster it's great
walter scheid's cooking was the topic to study at this dinner
lesson one lobster with two salads featuring papaya and mango
well the first thing that i hope everybody goes away feeling is that cooking is fun that food is interesting that they've enjoyed it that everyone's had a good time
welcome back to on the menu in the historic greenbrier resort in white sulphur springs west virginia
i'm in the victorian riding room just one of many beautifully decorated public rooms where guests can come and find a spot to read a book or write a letter or meet with friends
but of course over the decades the high point of the day has always been dinner and the greenbrier has a long history of serving the finest cuisine
a special dinner at the greenbrier today
the china is all gold
the flatware is gold
the goblets are gold
and dinner at the greenbrier many yesterdays ago
originally opened in the one thousand eight hundred fifties and then rebuilt in its present splendor in nineteen fourteen the greenbrier resort in the mountains of west virginia has been wining and dining in grand style for generations
but as greenbrier historian robert conte shows us this is the first reason people came to take the waters of white sulphur springs
oh my gosh it really does smell like eggs and that's the sulphur smell
yes right in front of you
well it's sort of an acquired taste
and how many years have you been here
fifteen to acquire the taste and now i'm getting the hang of it
but it was the promise of good health not the smell that lured visitors to the springs
well people are sitting around you know drinking the water and pretty soon they were playing cards and pretty soon they were riding horses and pretty soon a very lively social scene develops here
in fact the greenbrier became one of the places for the social set to see and be seen with elaborate balls and trips to the spa
during world war two the huge hotel was closed and used for a more serious assignment as an army hospital playing host to twenty five thousand g. i.s and when the war ended a new era began and it began with an explosion of color
redecorated by new york designer dorothy draper the rooms retain her sense of dramatic style today
but for food lovers it's the drama behind the scenes that's really amazing
when the house is full it's all hands on deck to serve three thousand five hundred meals a day
well it's a quarter of an acre kitchen and we employ in food and beverage about six hundred employees
another one hundred twenty
it's my second one
right now i'm making a tomato red pepper coulee
executive chef robert wong explains how they keep track of entree orders on the big board
because this kitchen is so large we don't use a p. a. system a mike system because it can just get a little bit too crazy
so the chefs say preparing item one knows that he has fifteen sixteen orders
teaching future chefs how it's done is part of the greenbrier legacy too
hold the spoon like this
you get a lot more control out of it that way
an apprenticeship program was started in the nineteen fifties
a lot of people try to get in and i'm just fortunate enough to be here and to make most of the opportunity
clarence is a graduate of the culinary apprenticeship program
what did you graduate clarence
nineteen sixty one
nineteen sixty one
and t. bone you graduated
nineteen seventy six
chef wong is a greenbrier graduate
so is walter scheib the executive chef at the white house
and it's sort of like getting your harvard m. b. a.
if you are able to get your greenbrier apprentice graduation certificate is a key that opens a lot of doors
but it was this door that remained closed for many years at the greenbrier
some of the staff members knew about it but this area was not only off limits it was top secret
welcome to the bunker built in case of national emergency during the eisenhower presidency
so this was for the legislative branch
this was for congress and so congress would relocate in this bunker
it was an entire facility for congress to meet
there was communication
there was space for all the for the house of representative for the senate
it really was an amazing thing and it was sort of grafted on to the greenbrier
no longer needed by the government it's open to visitors now and cooking classes take place in what was the bunker's kitchen another strange twist in the long history of the greenbrier at white sulphur springs
and no this isn't a soda fountain
at one time hotel guests who just couldn't get enough of that famous sulphur water could come here to the hotel spring room
the sulphur water was pumped directly to these spigots
but there's not much demand now so this stands as yet another bit of greenbrier history
welcome back to on the menu and the greenbrier resort home of the lavarenne cooking school
so what's it really like to take a cooking class here
well here's what i found out
but you don't want too much otherwise you won't get nice crisp pastry
after patiently watching and learning as chefs expertly demonstrate techniques in the classroom students at the lavarenne cooking school at the greenbrier get a chance to put their skills to the test
so we need this one right
put the flour and salt into the bowl of the food processor
so dressed the part in teams of four we set about the task of making three courses including formidable sounding papiettes of veal with lobster musoline in a tarragon berblanc even the linguine was made from scratch
when you're doing lectures you never really get any feedback from people
they tend to sit and look just to enjoy what's going on
whereas when you're doing this people you begin to see the penny dropping that's what it's about
you have to see how it's made in order to do it i think because i can't read about it and know how to do it
it's a little harem scarem but it's great yeah and when you get to the point where you don't really know what you're doing you call for help and somebody teaches the next step and then you've learned something
part of the challenge is cooking things you've never cooked before with people you just met in a kitchen you've never been in
yeah that's going to be the most difficult thing is finding out where exactly is where our dry ingredients where they are where you need them to be
but just don't let a noise start to make you feel like you're behind when you're not
and there is a lot of work to do from peeling the asparagus to blanching and cracking the lobster to making the linguine dough to chopping the fresh herbs and rolling the pastry for dessert
every dish had at least ten steps and ten ingredients
even the salad includes making pancakes with morel mushrooms smoked salmon and herbs
it was on first so i'm going to go ahead and flip her
though the pace was swift and the skill level fairly demanding chef peter timmons took the time to teach the basics
and after four hours of checking the list and moving along it amazingly all starts to come together
this is our first plate
i don't know how much should we charge for this
would it have taken six chefs four hours
and then of course the taste test
it's good it's very good
i think we did a great job
so we gave ourselves an a
and now that we have even greater appreciation for the talent and hard work of professional chefs here's a profile of two of the top chefs that visited lavarenne cooking school this year
walter scheib the executive chef at the white house and graham kerr famous as the galloping gourmet were two of the featured chefs at lavarenne cooking school
here's a sampling of their food and philosophy
so we're going to put our west virginia country baking in here
walter scheib's cooking at the white house celebrates the bounty of american cuisine
we're going to take some of the roasted vegetables that we had earlier and we're just going to sprinkle them all around all over everything
what is your definition of american cuisine
american cuisine is just like the american population it's a melting pot
there are influences from every culture in the world
they have all come here each one of them has a little input towards the whole and we'll have influences from asia we'll have influences from the indian subcontinent from europe from everywhere around the world
the white house has had an amazing culinary history as well
what does it feel like being part of that history
you know you couldn't ask for a greater honor and the responsibility that comes with that is to be responsible to the cuisine to represent the country as best possible to show the ingredients and showcase what we do
it's been two years now and i still get goose bumps on occasion when you go into work and you look around and say you know this is the white house
this is unbelievable
and now what some say is unbelievable the galloping gourmet graham kerr turned advocate for all things low fat and heart healthy
after his wife suffered a stroke and a heart attack they decided eating right was priority one
and i said listen i'm going to create something for you that you love to eat
i want to make it full of aromas and colors and textures
i really want to master the art of doing this
so now graham kerr is gung ho on discovering flavors and spices of the world cooking vegetarian entrees and tasting low fat meats such as ostrich
never cook ostrich well done
i don't think i've really changed my view at all about food
i'm just as enthusiastic
as a matter of fact i think i could be more enthusiastic
before it was how much butter or cream or brandy can you pour over something and now it is how much delicacy and arrangement and aromas and colors and textures can you get into a framework of food
it's the very bright attractive looking colors
it's got plenty of appeal and remember what i was talking about earlier the aroma color and texture thing
it has above the line flavors
and these fresh and healthy flavors appeal to fans who share kerr's new book and new look on life
now i've put love and success because they should go together
well our last stop at the greenbrier resort is the gourmet shop where inspired cooking school students and other food loving guests can get the cookbooks and the tools they need to be a great cook in their own kitchen
i'm carolyn o'neil
that's all we have on the menu this week
thanks for joining us
hello and welcome to parenting today
i'm pat etheridge
remember fighting with your brother or sister about who gets to sit up front in the car
or in later years fighting over the car
well beyond all the fussing we often find friendships that last a lifetime
c. n. n.'s loretta lepore looks at how sibling relationships grow and develop through the years
and they have buttons for you that says big brother or big sister and you can get one of those buttons so that you can wear it down to the room to see your new baby
cameron schulz is expecting a baby sister
it's a big deal because for seven years cameron's been the only child
soon he'll be the oldest child potentially saddled with a sibling rival
there will be times when he can't have our attention and times when the baby cries and it may bother him
but by and large he's very very positive
staying positive is key when sharing is what's at stake
but alissa friedman already knows that
do you share your things with jonathan
everything
and she did so great that that's probably the reason why we're having a third one so quickly because she was such a big help
preparation for siblinghood can be a big help too
do you know what kind of baby you're getting mark
a girl
a girl
do you know what you're going to name it
number
you haven't made that decision
because there's a lot of beths around
i want to name it beth
we can't name it beth so we have to
oh you kind of like beth but there's just too many beths around
some other things to think about if sibling rivalry is a concern
the experts say involve children in the naming of the baby remember the older child when friends and relatives coo over the newcomer and don't be surprised if jealousy is an issue
if you're married and your husband let's call him bob comes to you one day and says loretta you've given me so much joy and so much happiness and i've met janine down the street
she's a little younger and a little cuter but i know you won't mind if i bring her home
you can share all your favorite clothes with her
won't that be fun
i don't think you would say well right on bob
nancy samalin is a writer who draws on her experience as a mother of two boys
the title of your book loving each one best what does that mean
often parents say something like this oh i love all my children exactly the same
but i don't think we want to be loved the same
i think we want to be loved for ourselves and for who we are
who we are may change as we grow
how siblings interact may also change
take chuck and cameron heyen for example
one's nine the other twelve amiable to the outside world
they don't fight over who gets to sit in the front seat so that's good
sibling gladiators at home
i did not
you did
you broke the window
you did and you threw a marble at me
no i threw this thing at you and then you threw the marble at me and i you missed my head and it hit there and it cracked the window and then you made me try to hide it from mom
no i did not
they fight a lot
are they daily things
hourly it could go hourly probably
mom says as the competition heats up so do the backyard brawls
seems like your arguments get a little out of control
yeah
yeah
we usually don't hurt each other that bad
that bad
that bad
what's not that bad
i've got a big bruise right here
when the rough housing appears out of control parents are advised not to settle the dispute
instead the experts suggest parents intercede in a strong neutral tone
there will be no hitting
i will not let one child i love hurt another child i love
now do you guys solve most of your own problems your own arguments or does mom have to come in and
mom kind of
mom does
mom usually separates the boys
here's another approach
you can go in there and you can say kids you have a choice
you can work it out
i'll give you five minutes or i'm going to turn off the t. v.
the idea is to teach the art of negotiation
in utopia children will reconcile the dispute and ally against the parent
now a sure way to kindle a future fire
usually she gets mad at him and it's my fault
yeah
why is that
why is that
why does she get mad at
because i'm the oldest
and she put him in charge and there's a lamp up there that i broke and he said
see chuck broke the lamp i didn't
and he got in trouble for it
a new fight is already in the offing as soon as the parent has walked out of the room for obvious reasons
the other one has to even the score
mom concedes she often falls into that trap but she still puts faith in her parenting skills and the prospect of family harmony
probably another four years and they'll grow out of all this fighting maybe
then they'll fight over the car i guess
she guessed right
the car was a big source of tension
we share a car
and the phone
and the phone too yeah
that was always bad
landon and sydney hamilton seventeen and nineteen respectively
when we were little remember dad used to always get along remember that
he'd go if you don't get along i'm going to send you back to your rooms or dadada
if i hear you guys arguing then you know if you're going to argue i don't care but if i hear it then you're in trouble
yeah
and just because they fought when they were little doesn't mean it'll be that way forever
fighting is very immediate
it's lively it's fun it's not boring
but it has no it is no predictor of how they're going to get along in life not at all
at what point does it change that you kind of become friends or learn to appreciate one another
well there's steps along the way
i mean when you're little and you're fighting about silly things and then you know you have little broadening experiences along the way car trips et cetera
it's maturity
yeah
it's just when you're little you fight about barbies get older you fight about boyfriends then you fight about a car and then you move away from each other and there's not really anything to fight over anymore
but sydney's move to college hasn't severed the bond
do you turn to sydney often for advice and counsel
yeah yeah
not as much anymore because i don't talk to her as much
but like i guess ninth and tenth grade i did
boyfriend things
landon had a breakup over when was it
who
you remember when you confessed all about the whole robins and you remember
oh oh yeah yeah yeah
and who other than a sister could decipher the secret language
we miss each other now
absence makes the heart grow fonder
affection guised in sarcasm
if a stranger walked up to you and asked you who was your best buddy who would you say
my brother
my dog
sibling bonds love and anger friendship and jealousy an emotional tug of war spanning a lifetime
loretta lepore c. n. n. atlanta
siblings sharing one another's joys tears hopes and dreams
one lesson a child learns by having brothers and sisters is that the world does not revolve around one individual
slowly children learn that each of us has a responsibility first in our families and then in society
and by the time they reach high school many teenagers already are politically active like the ones who recently attended a conference in california
susan reed has the story
they've got their own music but when it comes to politics teenagers have the same agenda as adults
school violence and a lot of abortion
those all really affect teenagers more than more than people acknowledge
so i think it's really easy to be sucked into politics every day like on the school campus
teenagers are also talking about affirmative action welfare sexual harassment gay marriages immigration and drug legalization
in individual workshops they debate both rights and responsibilities
what students say is i'm really glad i got a chance to say what i want to say or ask the question that i've really been wanting to ask about a whole sort a whole myriad of issues
right now he does not have probable search probable cause to search the vehicle
dealing with the police is just one of the hot topics covered at this political conference for high school students the largest of its kind in the united states
the students set the agenda
while the conference is hosted by the a. c. l. u. which is generally known as a liberal organization there are conservative viewpoints here especially on the subject of abortion
workshop leaders tried to focus the discussion on parental consent but the debate was too passionate for that
i mean that's the rest of your life you deal with a child
i mean i think eventually she'll get over having an abortion
there are psychological consequences come from up to five to thirty five years after the abortion
women will have nightmares
i think the students have a different awareness
they are much more aware of how issues affect them personally and they take much more ownership in trying to address these issues and wanting to create change
many teenagers get a bad rap these days for being disconnected
not here
in this group at least politics is passion
susan reed c. n. n. berkeley california
for a bright young girl with a dream the sky is the limit
and now there's a new magazine trying to help girls soar to new heights
so perhaps it's appropriate the magazine is called new moon
c. n. n.'s janine sharell has the story
duluth minnesota known for snow and now publishing
this home is home to new moon magazine for girls
a place where we could say what we thought and just be accepted for what we thought
for girls about girls and edited by girls new moon is published from the home of joe kelly and nancy gruver
they started the magazine four years ago when their twin daughters were eleven years old an attempt to fill a void left by mainstream teen magazines devoted largely to fashion makeup and boys
we're not saying girls aren't interested in boy
but what we are saying is that's only a part of their lives and all these other parts were missing in the magazines
call it beginner's luck but this family has turned new moon into a stellar success
editors went to beijing last year for the united nations world conference on women and landed recent honors from the prestigious center for women's policy studies in washington d. c. girls here are working on an upcoming travel issue
next up politics and feminism
do you consider yourself a feminist
totally yeah
well we are in a way that we're kind of speaking out our minds
a lot of women think it's too strong a word but i mean i am feminist
i have strong opinions and i'm not afraid to say so
the most controversial part of new moon magazine is a regular feature called how aggravating basically a space where girls can write in and vent sharing frustrations about sexism they see in their daily lives
critics have called the how aggravating page a forum for feminist whining
it's sexism again just by saying that oh you're just complaining you're just whining is devouring
with a readership of forty thousand new moon is subscriber supported no advertising accepted
the girls had very strong feelings about advertising being one of the major ways that girls get destructive messages
keeping the magazine focused on its target age group eight to fourteen means mandatory retirement for editors on their fifteenth birthday
and only one man is allowed inside the inner circle
do you ever feel outnumbered in the family
i'm used to it
as far as careers in publishing for new moon's founding editors
i've really enjoyed but i mean i don't know i've already done it and i'd like to try something new
janine sharell c. n. n. duluth minnesota
the publishers say while some magazines tell girls what they should be new moon lets girls tell the world who they are
if you have a teenager you know that fast food restaurants video arcades and the mall are all popular stops
but more and more teens are meeting up at the corner coffee house
joan macfarlane looks at this growing trend among a new generation of java junkies
for true coffee connoisseurs there is no mistaking the sound
cappuccino machines are the trendy coffee makers of the nineties and an ever younger generation of coffee connoisseurs are helping spur the growth of plenty brews
i don't know why it is but i do believe that kids are drinking coffee at a younger age thirteen fourteen fifteen and coming in and drinking amounts that i probably wouldn't even drink and i've been drinking coffee for a while
corner coffee houses are becoming neighborhood hangouts for american teenagers
nice atmosphere
it's really comfortable
you can just sit here and talk and you're not rushed out like in most restaurants
i just like hanging around here and talking to friends
the attraction is as diverse as the teenagers who gather there
there's no cover charge
we don't serve alcohol very safe environment
gives them a chance to come and call the place their own and they can hang out till midnight or one o'clock in the morning
it makes them feel grown up
i mean isn't coffee traditionally a drink that grownups drink
so that probably and to come into a place where there are adults and they're accepted
whatever the reason behind the trend one thing is for sure there is no shortage of hangouts
just five years ago there were only two hundred coffee houses here in the united states
but today the number has grown to three thousand four hundred and by the end of the century that number is expected to climb to more than ten thousand
caffeine is a stimulant and while there is no concrete evidence to prove that caffeine creates serious health effects it can create some serious side effects
the effects on their home life their study life in terms of increased anxiety increased nervousness difficulty sleeping
that could impact on their school work and then even more significantly is the fact that it's an addictive substance
coffee's addictive trait could be one reason young coffee drinkers keep coming back
but these young drinkers will tell you there's a lot more to java jive than that
joan macfarlane for c. n. n. royal oak michigan
from exploring the latest teen hangouts to getting a read on young girls and their dreams to coping with sibling rivalry we hope we've left you with some insights
that's our show for now
i'm pat etheridge
we'll see you next time on parenting today
the man who lives in this picture perfect house had anything but an idyllic upbringing
the serenity of the maryland countryside is in sharp contrast to his troubled youth
boy this is this is my new baby
come on
james hindman is a gentle man who is using the lessons of his past to help others make a better future
an entrepreneur who became a millionaire before he was thirty five in businesses as diverse as buying nursing homes to creating an industry that is now a neighborhood fixture jiffy lube hindman has traveled a long path from his days in poverty
first of all you know i was born to a welfare you know situation you know sixteen year old father the whole scenario that you read about today is the way i started
yeah i had plenty of problems
salvation for hindman came many years later through sports
well football was really the avenue out of the ghetto
i am talking about the economic ghetto
football got you to college
right
and the football coach sat me down one day and said you know do i have to keep putting you in these dummy classes
why don't you learn something while you are here you can do it and he said it with such conviction and i believed him and it made me think about it and then i decided to try
after college what did how did you decide where to go next
you know it was during that period that i really i really truly became appreciative of all of the effort that society that the community had made for me and and it really was clear to me that i wanted to put something back
and yet at the same time i also wanted to i didn't want to be poor
i am not sure that i clearly understood that i wanted to be rich but i knew that i didn't want to be poor
in nineteen ninety one hindman conceived a way to invest in the kids society had given up on while building profit for shareholders and saving money for taxpayers
so you can see the importance of learning to be a tape measure
the business he founded is youth services international
it is the only for profit juvenile delinquency housing and education program in the country today
and guess what
it's working and we will show you how
jim hindman the tender guy in a tough business is next on pinnacle
jim hindman founded youth services international in nineteen ninety one and manages it from an unassuming corner office
he says the no frills approach keeps him connected to his iowa youth and growing up in poverty
for this interview we met with the down home boy uptown at new york's regency hotel
what's your first memory as a young boy
i guess you could say running in the middle of the night from one apartment to the other where you didn't pay the rent you know
your mother would get you up in the middle of the night
sure
and bundle the kids up
yeah
say come on we have to sneak out
yeah well i don't know that the words were said but those things happened and they have happened and i do remember what it is to have a very limited economic beginning
jim was born to teenage parents he never knew his father and raising three kids on her own was too much for his mother who surrendered them to an orphanage
do you remember when your mother took you to the orphanage that day
oh absolutely
how old were you
i was about nine years old
i remember very clearly that they weren't going to keep me there
i mean i was absolutely you know determined to run away i mean that was for sure
and i did try to run away only i ended up sitting in a cell you know looking out two bars which we don't have but in those days
at a boy's home
yeah sure
and they they put the message across very clearly that they were in charge and there were rules that you were going to follow and when you broke the rules you were punished you see
life at the boys and girls home as it was called was rough but at the school of hard knocks jim hindman made a promise to himself
i was determined to be a success
i was determined to have you know more than i had had
i didn't want to be poor and i can remember that forever
when did you first say that to yourself
it's a memory that i have always had
and so as long as i have memories i knew what it was like to be poor and i didn't like that
i had seen plenty of kids who had things that i would have liked to have had
the important thing is that i learned how to work to make it happen
jim hindman doesn't like to dwell on his past he hopes his life will inspire the young kids under his care
to be able to show them how to make something out of nothing is really what it is all about
and that's really the way i felt about myself i felt i was nobody and nothing and i became somebody
i think that the thing that inspired me the most was that by working you could get ahead
that you know the ladies that were in charge there was a miss crownbe and a miss schwamton they were the two authority figures and you know i can remember once when i had done something that you know you got punished for and i got what is the equivalent of caning they had a switch in to you know whip me pretty good
and you know and she i remember her turning me around and saying why can't you cry you know because you couldn't make me cry
i would not show feelings in public you know
and the thing that that do you know what that got to me about
that she cared she cried i didn't cry you know
but that got to me
that the fact that you couldn't cry made her cry
yeah
and that that impressed me
but i think it was the rebelliousness the you're not going to i'm not going to allow somebody to see me hurt you know
that's james now they see me hurt all the time now
i mean i am a big cry baby
while jim was in the orphanage he was visited by a minister someone he trusted but who ended up abusing that confidence
somebody who is a minister who comes in
right
the implied suggestion is that you can
true
you can trust this person and then he sexually abuses you
right
absolutely
right that's absolutely true and it is a most scary terrifying shocking eveything imaginable thing you can think of to describe it is present in in a young ten year old's mind
i mean you never want i mean i don't think i ever even mentioned it until probably forty years old
you held that secret all that time
because you see the way things were in those days i mean it was to make you feel ashamed don't ever tell anyone about this because the management didn't want anybody to know about this do you understand
yeah oh sure
sure
and then god i mean when you get that then you say well lord what did i do or you know i mean
here's a kid with not much self esteem in the first place
amen
and then that
how do you turn that around
whew well you know again because of education you see i gave a significant amount of money to my college to build a building that i wanted to be called the great teachers and coaches because the people who impacted me more than any are the teachers and coaches that kept me growing
i am what i am today because i was able to escape the economic ghetto through football
i got a football scholarship and that enabled me to get a full college education that's the only reason i went to school
you know i didn't care i didn't know the importance of it and so i didn't didn't do the right things
but somewhere along the way you know bingo
it
right
it it clicked right
and ain't it great
how jim hindman has used the lessons of his past to help troubled kids turn their lives around
that when pinnacle continues
the tragedy of this country is that there are seventy percent of all juvenile crime are committed by kids from single parent families
there are eighteen million kids in this country that are being raised in a single parent family
what that means is that there is a tremendous need for industry and business to pick up the slack that's created by just one parent trying to raise those kids
in the conference room at jim hindman's maryland home is a memento wall of football souvenirs
it was after all a football scholarship that took him to morningside college in sioux city iowa
and he helped coach the football team at the university of minnesota while studying for his master's degree in hospital administration
i ultimately became involved with nursing homes
and i built and controlled operated a number of nursing homes which we ultimately sold and i was able to retire as a millionaire before i was thirty five
could you believe it
do you know it was such a shock and i can remember by partner saying to me we were driving along and i can see it and remember it as clear as anything he said boy do you realize how lucky you are such a young man and i said what are you talking about he said to be a millionaire at your age isn't that amazing and and i hadn't i mean i had worked real hard and i hadn't realized it but once i realized it i went i think through the first sort of depression that i really ever remembered for years
jim says while he was happy pursuing the dream he didn't know what to do once he realized it he was a man in search of a new direction
so i said i can teach kids through the medium of football teach them the principles about making a living and being successful and working hard and so forth
hindman quit the nursing home business and in nineteen seventy six landed a job as head coach at western maryland college
it was a division the third football team and hindman coached it to national ranking
well a kid came into my office one day when i was coaching football at western maryland and said to me he guessed he would go to work for social security there were no opportunities left in america
and i i i was so flabbergasted i said what the hell are those pinko bastards teaching you over there i said that's outrageous then he said i'll bet you couldn't do it again you know meaning you couldn't make
one million dollars again so i says let me tell you something jack i not only could make one million dollars but i could take a whole bunch of your friends with me
this bet was the beginning of a new industry hindman invented jiffy lube
how did the idea come about
the idea came about because a young man you know took my car to the cadillac garage and called me at the end of the day and said coach we've got a problem i can't get your car and i went down they had taken the dashboard apart
i said what's going on wrong work order
you wanted an oil change
that's all i wanted was an oil change
and then i started thinking about that it's just like this triggering event i talked about with these kids
mm hm
i said i wonder how many other people that happens to and the more i looked and i studied the fish and then all of a sudden i said holy cow
i think there is an opportunity here
i tried to decide what it was i didn't like about it and when you got your oil changed you had to leave it all day the place was dirty and crummy looking
so we said let's put it on main street clean it up clean the people up you know make it courteous correct you know all of the good things that we did and that was how we developed the game plan
the idea caught on and before long jiffy lube was everywhere
i read everything i could get my hands on
it's the same thing about franchising
i really didn't know anything about franchising but i decided there is one way to learn
someone said the only way you change is because you meet new people or you read new books
you said you made some mistakes with jiffy lube
for sure
clearly
we we all in my judgment if you go back and look at the business careers of people i don't know anybody that hasn't made any mistakes
and if you don't make mistakes you didn't take the right risks
the opportunity for people to have greatness you cannot have the success and the security in the same hand and you must have this this risk aspect
jiffy lube won hindman the entrepreneur of the year award but he got into financial trouble helping his players finance their franchises
until you've looked into the abyss you really don't know what your character is
and i say to you that the experience that we went through to look into the abyss to look into the cauldron of like whew tough times is a very important thing
everyone of our kids i say to them you've got to go through the crucible of fire to be hardened steel
how does this apply to jiffy lube the abyss though
i mean it it sounded to me like the mistakes you made with jiffy lube were made from the heart
oh i don't think
that you that you were
there's any question of that
that you were loaning money and helping your players set up their franchises not real smart but it was it was from the heart
well
that you wanted these guys
well on the i would
to have it done that way
i would say to you that the evidence that they've stayed with it and are doing very well and so forth
wonderful
would say that it was smart
the thing that wasn't smart was not to know that they were going to change the rules
i mean the government changed the rules in the way we handled accounting for real estate
it's a situation that a lot of savings and loans in communities that were very very good and sound still got rapped with the new interpretation that came because the government overreacted to the savings and loan and banking crisis
the way out for hindman was to sell jiffy lube for one hundred million dollars to penzoil
did that make you a rich man
i was already a rich man
you were already rich
i am the luckiest man in america and the quote that i think as i say to these kids is you can do it you can do it i did it
when we come back the remarkable business hindman has created to help kids
i gave up coaching the the football team because i needed to coach a bigger team we're coaching with the people that take care of four thousand kids
that's when pinnacle continues
jim hindman's life has come full circle from spending his youth in an orphanage to now running a chain of youth correction centers
my first recognition was that something ought to be done
i went to a national planning council and the people up there were looking at teenage pregnancy and truancy and gangs and so froth and i went through this agenda and i said what about adjudicated youth i mean which i know about that
and they said they're not on the agenda because we've written them off now these are national planning people from our government
and i said what do you mean you don't mean that
what do you mean you've written them off they said there aren't enough resources and we've written them off
and i mean the that was sort of a triggering event and i said jesus if nobody else wants them i'll take them
jim began in maryland and now has youth detention centers in eight states
the tragic thing for the country is that the business is doing extremely well
youth services international started in nineteen ninety one and became profitable in nineteen ninety three
a year later hindman took the company public and the stock which opened in the teens is now trading in the mid thirty's
how do you make your shareholders happy
candidly the way that we really have been able to make our shareholders happy is the fact that we have found abandoned throw away real estate
we've had colleges that were in bankruptcy we've taken state mental institutions that had declined in their former use
we have one that was at one time eighteen hundred patients they had a one hundred and now that we are there there are four hundred people
it costs about forty thousand dollars per kid a year in one of y. s. i.'s centers which is about twenty five percent less than what it costs the state
emphasis is on learning a trade and around one hundred students have gone on to college
i had an interesting event the other day a person that was really interested in looking at us he came and he was talking to the kids and like what's really going on here and one of the kids says you want to know what's really going on he says they are trying to make us into entrepreneurs
one of the kids said this
yes
pretty good
and that's really it
we do not believe there is any wisdom in allowing a kid to be dependent on drugs alcohol his mother or on welfare and the only way that can change is he has to successfully enter the world of work
the world of work is where he has freedom and choices and they also get this tremendous satisfaction
now where do you get the money to teach them these things
well we have primarily two sources
i mean the the paying part that the state and the federal government contributes is a major portion of it
business and industry we have a related not for profit organization that exists for the purpose of doing things that government isn't going to pay for
training runs the gamut from flower arrangements to computers
the students are also taught lessons in money management
this tractor had been through a fire
we got it the kids got it for nothing you know and they rebuilt it
and when they were doing that you see
i mean kids learn by doing you know
and so here they were doing the work and here they are with this tractor and they sold it for eight hundred dollars
voila
the predominant number of our kids are probably from thirteen to eighteen
we started with the idea of cutting off the pipeline to prison
now we want to cut off the pipeline to crime
so we're seeing a number of younger kids and of course kids are doing more violent things younger
at a younger age
yeah
you take rapists you take robbers
yes
murderers
yes yes
when they come to you their first day what do they go through
is it like boot camp
yes to a great extent
to them i am sure it would be very much like a boot camp
they are made to understand from their peers what life is all about
bars
are there bars
are there cells
no we we believe without locks and bars is the way to do it
if you are going to create if if we are going to have a relationship one of the elements of that is going to have to be trust right
is this enterprise going to make you a rich man jim
well you know i really do believe that riches are measured in more than just dollars
in terms of the experiences you know where kids have written to me that end up saying you know i want to thank you for saving my life that you know three of his buddies are dead one of them hung himself in a jail one of them was killed by another gang member and i think the third one was killed by police officers in an escape situation
so when a kid writes to you and tells you that what y. s. i. provides has enabled him to save his life i mean that's that's does that make you a rich man
sure it does
as part of the education the kids learn victim awareness the program tries to teach them accountability for their actions
i had a sixteen year old boy tell me that no one in my family ever worked no one in my building ever worked no one in my neighborhood ever worked
i want to watch you work
i just thought checks came in the mail that's why i say we have this crisis that we need to be afraid of because it is going to create a body of people that will be so large that will come to you and say we demand that you give us more and you are going to say ultimately number and then they're going to take it
right
it certainly does seem that you were meant to do what you are doing today
yes and i really am thankful to the lord for the great great opportunities that i have had
someone said to me once that they thought maybe god had prepared me all of my life for this job
you cannot neglect the spiritual aspect of this thing
at the end of the day the goodness of man has got to be developed just as much as the as the mental process
and as a nation we've got to get back to really putting an investment there
hindman is committed to making his business a success but he probably wouldn't mind if business wasn't quite so good it would mean fewer troubled kids on the streets
for pinnacle i am beverly schuch
for as many as four hundred thousand refugees today was homecoming
the main coastal highway from beirut to tyre was crowded with people heading south towards the homes and villages they fled when israel and hezbollah guerrillas began sixteen days of fighting
many returned to homes severely damaged by the shelling
one elderly man suffered a heart attack when he saw what had happened to the place he used to call home
there were homecomings in northern israel as well
c. n. n.'s bill delaney reports
one particular view of first life from an apartment in kiryat shmonah northern israel what a final katyusha rocket did israeli officials say one minute before the four in the morning cease fire began
by dawn though with the cease fire then two hours old silence
for the first time in at least seventeen days no rockets vaulted the mountains on the israeli lebanese border no israeli cannon thundered back diplomacy having stilled the warring armies
apprehensive israelis outside the bomb shelter they've lived in for more than two weeks said they'd spend another few days underground just in case
we don't feel any different this man said the war is still on there's no peace
at a twenty four hour hot line in the kiryat shmonah municipal building calls kept up all morning
you know i mean it was from the citizen want to know is it serious
we need to believe to hezbollah believe to our prime minister
so we have too many questions
a few did trickle back of the estimated twenty thousand who fled kiryat shmonah not certain whether trouble would start again still relieved
wonderful
home
no it's home
in the hours after the cease fire kids slid down the roof of the bomb shelter they've called home for more than two weeks in kiryat shmonah a place to hide underground part of life from the beginning
most don't expect that to end any time soon
israelis here say they fear hezbollah rockets meant to disrupt israeli elections at the end of may time to make israeli prime minister shimon peres look bad and a peace process hezbollah despises
israelis here say it wouldn't be the first time they were pawns in the larger game of politics along the israel lebanon border
bill delaney c. n. n. kiryat shmonah northern israel
in the past six weeks comet hyakutake has been a spectacular sight for amateur star gazers but it's also a golden opportunity for professional astronomers who are using every trick in the book to analyze the comet
as ann kellan reports what they learn about the comet could shed light on how the earth developed
when comet hyakutake suddenly appeared early this year astronomers scrambled to get a good look
we haven't seen a comet this close to the earth in about four hundred five hundred years
we've seen comets as bright as this comet halley's of course but most people remember going out in nineteen eighty six nineteen eighty seven and didn't see very much
these images were taken by both amateur and professional astronomers using every imaging instrument available from infrared to microwave researchers hope to learn more about comets how they effected life on this planet
the comet is a giant dirty snowball that's boiling up very rapidly
and they've been kept at the outskirts of the solar system in the deep freeze of space for four point six billion years and so they've changed very little since that time because the material you're looking at in comets today is probably very similar to the material that existed at the time of the formation of the solar system which was four point six billion years ago
many scientists think comets came together to form some of the planets like jupiter saturn uranus and neptune
some think that when the so called muddy snowballs collided with earth they helped form the oceans and terrain
we know that the most dominant constituent in the comet is plain old water ice and that's very significant because we think that a lot of the water on the earth for example may have been brought here by comets
a few years ago researchers celebrated when they were able to observe the effects of comet shoemaker levy nine smashing into jupiter
they believe a comet much bigger than this smashed into earth sixty five million years ago and contributed to the extinction of the dinosaurs
by studying images of comet hyakutake researchers are discovering the comet has chemicals similar to those found on earth and other planets like sulfur carbon dioxide and ethane
they wonder if comet hyakutake might be an ancient fragment of a comet collision that formed one of these planets
even more complex molecules complex hydrocarbons see to be present in comets and those would have also been brought to the earth and the other inner planets by collisions with comets
that giant dirty snowball is located right down in here and the sunward direction is over here
these images taken from the orbiting hubbell space telescope show researchers the comet's sunny side
they think the sun heats up the comet's surface setting off small explosions of debris filled with comet dust and tell tale chemicals
it's here at the goddard space flight center that data is pouring in about this new comet hyakutake and it is also here that a team of researchers decided to study x. rays emitted from the comet itself
this x. ray image taken from the german rossadt satellite has researchers in a quandary trying to figure out if the x. ray radiation is coming from the comet or if the solar wind is blowing x. rays from the sun into the comet's atmosphere
either way the x. rays are providing scientists another vehicle to study comets' impact on earth and even compare icy comets with bone dry asteroids
comets probably hit the earth much less frequently that asteroids do but they probably provide the largest impact and produce the largest craters and have the largest effect of life on earth
the data are essentially in such a premature state that we just don't know enough yet
no matter how much data scientists analyze remote observations aren't enough
the stardust mission in nineteen ninety nine is scheduled to fly close enough to comet wild two to collect samples of dust then drop them to earth to be analyzed and the european space agency and nasa are planning a mission called rosetta for the year two thousand ten that will actually land a probe on a comet
ann kellan c. n. n.
greenbelt maryland
department of energy research says almost no city in the u. s. meets air pollution standards when it gets hot
atlanta is no exception but it is the only city hosting the olympics this summer
new satellite imagery reveals the olympic city is so hot it has become a heat island
here's ann kellan again
downtown atlanta nineteen ninety two
the city has just learned it is host of the nineteen ninety six summer olympic games
as it turns out this early tree planting was money well spent
there are too few big trees downtown to cool the thousands of visitors flocking to one very hot spot an area called the olympic ring
how hot is the olympic venue
new images designed to help urban planners reveal like every city in the country development is turning atlanta into a heat island
when we get to a a red color the darkest red that's nine to twelve degrees hotter than the surrounding countryside
this government research shows atlanta's olympic ring is in the red hot center of a temperature grid
from looking through the eyeballs of a satellite satellite imagery we were able to see that over a twenty year period that the heat island around the city the airport and the counties has increased dramatically
heat is not a new problem to athletes but this heat also creates a thirty percent increase in air pollution
that air is heated up like a buntsen burner in a chemistry experiment
the temperature increases the air mixes and you get smog increased ozone and a lot of the pollution problems that we have
during the olympics this may affect the athlete's performance
but the smoggy horizon and hot air will stay in atlanta long after the games are gone
that's where these roofers come in
a white roof like this on an initial cost is a little bit more expensive than a black roof
this reflective roofing is being installed on a new commercial building far from atlanta's hot downtown
but this cooler suburban area could easily turn into part of atlanta's heat island in the near future
this roof and others like it reduce heat because of how well it reflects
today's building codes still don't encourage builders to spend a little more up front and be energy efficient
the non profit forestry group american forests says planting trees and installing new roofs takes the edge off the problem
but they ask why not value your trees in the first place
right now we found that the trees within the city limits in atlanta in the residential areas alone save four point six million dollars a year in summer energy savings
american forestry also says areas with trees can deal with storm water where treeless areas can't
those worried about a very hot future say if you can't see the forest for the trees the pathway to livable cities lies this way
ann kellan c. n. n. reporting
it's now been ten years since the world's worst nuclear accident devastated the chernobyl reactor in what was then soviet union
the ruined reactor is still potentially dangerous the point underscored wednesday night when it leaked a small amount of radioactive water
but the effects of the chernobyl disaster go far beyond that one reactor as eileen o'connor explains
the silence the evidence of panicked flight the absence of a child's voice lie in memorium of the world's worst nuclear disaster
ten years later and the exclusion zone around chernobyl is still unsafe
the reactor itself leaking radiation even on the eve of the anniversary
spring time grass fires break out in the untended fields spewing radioactive ash again into the air and for many no escape
some of the older locals have returned resigned to the invisible danger resigned to the certainty of death
the reactor itself still stands as testimony to a tragic belief in man over nature and the fear is in a region with fourteen other reactors like chernobyl's it's only the first such tragedy
before this type of reactor will be under function the such kind of accidents will be possible
it's a real situation
some estimate it will take a billion dollars to shut down each of these reactors not counting the money to build replacements
the countries in this region are committed to nuclear energy despite the risks risks they see only too well in the children sixty times more cases of thyroid cancer per year a significant rise in certain types of tumors
yet authorities continue to argue over whether there were merely thousands or hundreds of thousands of victims
some nuclear experts downplay the effects calling the claims of hundreds of thousands of victims sensational
but many people point to the fact that these same nuclear experts are often tied to the nuclear industry and that the effects of chernobyl belie the safety claims of that industry
for that reason so many here are anxiously sounding the warning fearful that if chernobyl is shut down covered over people will simply forget overlooking the lessons that must be learned
we still think that there are very many unknown long term consequences of the disaster that should be known and should be appreciated but should be studied in depth by all the humanity
for it is humanity that will pay for its ignorance
eileen o'connor c. n. n. minsk
for centuries astronomers wondered if there were planets outside our solar system
now suddenly in the past year planets seem to be popping up all over the place
the main reason for the change is a pair of astronomers in berkeley california
craig heaps explains
paul butler and geoff marcy have opened the door to what may be a revolution in the star gazing business
they has developed a way to detect planets orbiting distant stars as far away as forty or fifty light years
as of six months ago there were no known planets outside of our solar system and since that time five of them have popped up
we're almost doing a planet a month right now
they don't actually see the planets but instead infer their existence by measuring their effects on distant suns
particularly exciting to astronomers is the fact that two of the planets appear to be the right distance from their suns to have water on them
water means the possibility of life
we know that water represents the catalyst within which this chemical reaction or set of processes can take place but to be honest none of our planets that we've discovered so far probably have pools or lakes or oceans on them
dan wertheimer heads u. c. berkeley's project to find life in space by listening to radio waves
he says marcy's and butler's work has already helped him and his colleagues
well it helps us figure out where to point our radio telescopes to look for these radio signals
so far the two astronomers have been able to detect only very large planets those about the size of jupiter
marcy and butler say the only thing that's really holding them back is technology and that as telescopes get better they expect to find even smaller planets than they've found so far
butler's and marcy's discoveries have already drawn world wide attention but their dream is someday to be able to actually see these planets not just measure their effects
if there's going to be a prayer of actually taking a picture of other planets it's going to have to be spaced based so you're going to have to develop new technology and they you're going to have to put it in space
and that means technology even more sophisticated than the hubbell telescope
in the mean time they must settle for the drawings school children have sent them after learning of their work and imagining what these far off worlds might look like
craig heaps for c. n. n. berkeley california
sail across a pond in a boat made of cardboard
surely that's a challenge that could only appeal to engineering students or perhaps masochists
but add a few ingredients to the cardboard make the whole thing into a contest and suddenly a lot of students are willing to take the plunge
jeanne moos tested the waters
the america's cup it ain't
this is what we call the cardboard regatta
how long this thing take you to make about an hour
yeah exactly
but other college students spent days designing vessels with names like volunteer ambulance herpes free escape from alcatraz
the pond they were assaulting is roth pond on the state university of new york stoneybrook campus
how confident are you captain
very
how confident are you
very
confidence was high but vessels were sinking
every year stoneybrook students and staff race one another in home made boats
there are seven materials that are allowed and each one of them has four water properties except perhaps for paint and duct tape
so you'll find that half the boats are painted and the other half use duct tape for their seal
physics professor tom hemmick is a duct tape man
his students used thirty six rolls a couple miles of duct tape to construct the u. s. s. subnuclear
the subnuclear showed impressive speed but other subs proved well substandard
this one didn't just capsize once it capsized over and over again
apparently there was a teenie weenie design flaw
as long as you lean one way it goes right over
not only can you not get into it you can't even get out of it
nearly thirty boats competed if you can call this a competition
maybe it's no surprise that at a major college event of interest to greek fraternities and sororities c. n. n. wouldn't be providing the only coverage
this is channel ninety nine where greek is on all the time
thank you
so what if most of the crafts weren't seaworthy
they were worthy of being seen
what's its name
bite me the u. s. s. bite me
but the crew members of the bite me bit off more than they could chew
we waterproofed it
and here's the proof of that
one of the biggest cheers of the day was for a crew that truly knows how to navigate
as for the regatta winners there were two classes
in one person speedster category the s. s. archimedes won easily
its crew members have a name for themselves
ah you're the geeks
mechanical engineering students when a captain even color coordinated his pants with his boat
in the larger yacht class the titanic here got off to a rocky launch
once she got underway there was no iceberg in the way of this titanic
and check her out on land with her top on
its creators work from an actual photo of the real titanic
sixteen lifeboats just like the original
we didn't as many as they did
and there was one other award
who won best looking boat
oh that pontoon thing
how dare he refer to the u. s. s. subnuclear that way especially after what the titanic did to it
what actually happened out there
i saw a little kind of bumping
there's only one way to settle this
i'll look back at our tape and see
here's the instant replay the subnuclear wasn't rammed it was cut off and never recovered but at least it survived
which boat is that
u. s. s. bite maine
bit the dust
most of the losers ended up in the recycling marina
what do you think went wrong
we didn't use enough duct tape
now that's an excuse that doesn't hold water
jeanne moos c. n. n. stoneybrook new york
well it's time for us to sail off into the sunset
thanks for joining us
i'm miles o'brien
next week some new auto security systems are designed to foil carjackers with a car phone that knows when to call for help
putting the brakes on carjacking on the next edition of science and technology week
we'll see you then
this week's showbiz this weekend is behind the scenes of the dana carvey show
we're going to go now and find out about mulholland falls from sherri sylvester
nick nolte has felt the trappings of success and he says fame and fortune can ruin a good actor
you turn into a supreme egoist and the films end up being very bad and you sell out for money and the money doesn't need anything and you get gout or herpes or some other disease from too much lust and dirt and you wallow in it and you become fat and that's what success disgusting that's what success does to you
and so he confines such qualities to his on screen characters
this time he plays a cop corrupted by power in nineteen fifties los angeles
he heads the hat squad an elite group of vigilante detectives who literally bounce the bad guys out of town
michael madsen chris pann and chazz palminteri also play hard boiled cops
when cops were cops i said you know this is exciting you know it's like you know absolute power you know wow to do whatever you want
the cops of mulholland falls are portrayed as untouchables heroes who beat up the bad guys before miranda rights existed
we talk about rogue cops today and cops who take the law into their own hands are really looked down upon
why are these hat squad guys so heroic
that's what we liked about dirty harry you know
we want a guy to clean up the mess and we don't really want him to do it you know according to the letter of the law but we want this guy to protect us when we're in times of trouble
maybe we really want that time when it was purer when it was more where the cops walked in and if you were bad hey you were going to get it and they didn't want to hear nothing about rights nothing like that
nolte is known for his exhaustive research
he found real members of the one time hat squad and interviewed l. a. p. d. veterans
what we're seeing in the film is this morality is easily corruptible and if it is corrupted in the infidelity then the whole thing tumbles
that's how tenuous this power is
these days a cop beating a suspect brings outrage
but the tough guy detective remains a staple in hollywood movies
sherri sylvester c. n. n. los angeles
this is high
what is this like a fourteen foot basket
out in theaters this weekend is sunset park starring rhea perlman as a high school teacher who knows more about basket weaving than shooting hoops
that doesn't stop her however from trying to turn some young street kids into a bunch of straight shooters
she takes a job as the basketball coach of the varsity boys team which is a position nobody else wants because it's a losing team and nobody gives a damn and they give her the job because nobody gives a damn
one team that always seems to work well together perlman and her executive producer husband danny devito
yeah i'm her boss
well it's not a task that i'm unaccustomed to
number
we're just writing our real thoughts
yeah
yeah it's like just like home
yeah this is an italian family
yes sir
whatever you say sir
thank you very much
yes sir
good
can i bring you your dinner sir
that's right
in the truth about cats and dogs janeane garofalo stars as abby a radio talk show host who knows everything about love
when brian one of abby's male listeners wants to meet the voice on the radio the super shy abby enlists the help of a model named noel played by uma thurman to act as her cirino
garofalo who has been a supporting player on saturday night live and the larry sanders show says that assuming the lead in a film has it's challenges
there is so much unsolicited armchair quarterbacking from studio people that it does not help
it just it serves only to make you more insecure and it just tampers with the creative process
so that was not a perk of being a principal but i'll tell you i enjoyed it
it's nice to be one of the main people
finally also out this weekend no stranger to the spotlight oscar winning actor anthony hopkins who wore a number of hats for august yet another version of the chekhov classic uncle vania
well i'm pleased about it
i accomplished three tasks the acting directing and the music i was particularly proud of
one of the new t. v. highlights coming up is born free
in born free a new adventure airing saturday night on a. b. c. jonathan brandes of sea quest fame plays rand thompson a city kid who feels like a fish out of water when his father moves the family to africa
that all changes however after ran meets an orphan lion cub named elsa
the lion and my son become buddies and they just are inseparable
but the lion is also being taken care of by my next door neighbor's daughter
so there's a relationship kind of brewing between them and in the center of it is the lion
there's also plenty of fun brewing in dexter's laboratory these days
on saturday the turner entertainment networks unveil a brand new animated character a brainy little know it all named dexter who thinks that wacky inventions are mere child's play
he's a genius and he has this huge scientific laboratory in his bedroom and he makes all these inventions
he's a very cocky very confident little boy but he's got his own that's the surface of it but beneath he's kind of sweet and kindhearted
finally who better to host a show called reel wild cinema than the always wild comedienne and actress sandra bernhard
sassy sandra celebrates some of hollywood's weirdest low budget films in this new hour long series
it's the genre of films that i grew up on those really kind of terrifying friday night horror flicks horror sex you know it's where horror meets you know hot sex
reel wild cinema airs on the u. s. a. network sunday night
bill tush c. n. n. entertainment news new york
mark scheerer is going to tell us about hootie and the blowfish's new album called fairweather johnson
hootie's back home
an m. t. v. special at the university of south carolina where hootie and the blowfish formed in the nineteen eighties
after a decade of hard road work as a bar band and frat party favorite they became a phenomenon
over eight million copies of their debut album cracked rear view were sold
they won two grammys including best new artist
how do they follow that up and avoid the sophomore jinx
ignore it
yeah we don't worry about it
i mean we made the best record we could make so now just put it out and go on tour and you know you can't really worry about it
this is like the rumors of this generation
you know fleetwood mac sold fifteen million once they never did again and no one expected them to
so in a way they don't have to worry about hitting that mark again because no one expects them to
old man me is the first single from the new album fairweather johnson
we were on a roll
we were motivated and we went straight from the tour to doing a new album
i think it because of that it sounds fresh
the directions that we touched on on cracked rear view we've been able to kind of actually go in on this album
hootie fans are going to say hooray it's more of the blowfish music we love
hootie haters are going to say yuck it's just more of the blowfish music we love to hate
hootie and the blow is an easy target because a lot of people don't have any time you know they've just got a lot of time on their hands they just you know we're their target
as for the album title fairweather johnson it's their derogatory term for a front runner a sports fan who jumps on the bandwagon
sports especially golf are big with the blowfish who recruited e. s. p. n. for one of their videos
whose golf game is best
we're all really equally bad
it depends on the day of the week
i beat everyone all the time
it's amazing how out of the spotlight and golf and people knowing that we play golf how bad we have become
oh yeah
we've learned that we are poor golfers through all this
yeah
i mean everyone every time we go to play golf everyone's like so what are you like a six a nine
i mean no
yeah if you put a two in front of that
despite their handicap of seemingly having as many detractors as fans hootie and the blowfish will play through thank you
mark scheerer c. n. n. entertainment news new york
we'll go to our home video preview
look out guys they've got that thelma and louise look in their eyes again
waiting to exhale is a nineties style update of what used to be called a woman's picture with four top notch actresses trying to work out their problems with the men in their lives
and as you might well guess most men don't fare very well in this film
actor forrest whitaker directed this
many women love it
most men should bring flowers when it's over
just a piece of friendly advice
disney is the standard bearer for feature animation to be sure
but to call the nineteen seventy feature the aristocats a masterpiece is to stretch that word a little out of shape
the voice cast is headed up by phil harris as a street wise alley cat and eva gabor as a tabby kidnapped for her huge inheritance and nobody is suggesting that there be a broadway version of this one
see you at the rental counter
dennis michael c. n. n. entertainment news hollywood
weird al yankovic has a new album out
our dennis michael went behind the scenes watched him at it and talked to weird al about of all things his take off of coolio
the original coolio raps out the situation in the hood as michelle pfeiffer looks on
swap the mean streets for rural pennsylvania and trade out michelle for florence henderson and you have amish paradise
weird al yankovic has done it again
amish paradise is the kick off single for bad hair day weird al's tenth album
he's lasted much longer than some of the acts he's parodied
sometimes i think back to when i was starting out and of how nobody wanted to sign me to a record deal because everybody thought that you know i was a novelty artist and those are one hit wonders and you know i wouldn't be around in three months and meanwhile it's you know fifteen sixteen years later and i'm still annoying people
in fact amish paradise is the exception rather than the rule
because of a misunderstanding yankovic worked on the satire in the belief that coolio was aware of and okay with the idea of the satire
when he learned too late that coolio was in fact annoyed with the single the satirist offered a sincere apology
in every other case al's parodies have been done with permission
that's okay
i just think it's the right thing to do
it's a joke you know it's all done in good fun
in fact easily the only time an artist will get mad at me is when i don't do a parody of theirs like what was wrong with me
how come you haven't done me yet
no this isn't a new look for al but it is becoming his new second career
al yankovic not only directs the video versions of his own songs like clip gump based on the song lump originally by the presidents of the united states and now he's begun directing clips for other artists as well
but don't look for weird al to give up his nickname or his career as a parodist
he's serious about his music
he's just not interested in serious music
i think there's enough people in the world already that do unfunny music you know
i don't want to be one of them
weird al's bad hair day is already out and the bad hair day tour kicks off in may
dennis michael c. n. n. entertainment news hollywood
we've got to go we're out of time
showbiz this weekend over
there's a new development in the thirty four day standoff between federal officials and members of an anti government group holed up on a wheat farm in montana
both sides have allowed a former green beret and colonel into the farm house
c. n. n.'s don knapp joins us with a live report now from brusett montana
it is a cold windy day here on the high planes of remote eastern montana but we presume that inside that farm house you see over my shoulder in the long lens shot right now there are some warm if not heated discussions going on
inside that farm house is james bo greiz and his companion jack mclam who are discussing with the freemen greiz plan to end this long standoff
now a little bit earlier today greiz and mclam and randy weaver arrived here on the scene in a motorcade
they came down here with the f. b. i.'s permission and with a police escort to begin these discussions
at the road block randy weaver got out while greiz and mclam went on in
that was about ten o'clock this morning mountain time which means they've been in there about six hours
while this was going on randy weaver spoke with us and he told us that the difficult greiz was going to have was to convince the freemen inside that they would have to resort to the legal system to get this thing resolved the legal system that they really don't like
bo's been in contact through himself and friends of his have been in contact with some pretty good attornies and they've talked about a lot of the charges and things that are against these people in here and they seem to feel that they can go into court and they can beat just darned near everything they got against these guys
going through the regular legal system
right
but these guys don't want the regular legal system they say
that's where we've got to we've got to let 'em know that they you know they're afraid going through the regular system they're going to go down the tubes and we've got to try and convince them that you know a lot of the stuff that they've charged against 'em right now is frivolous
randy weaver of course is the man who was holed up in the standoff at ruby ridge idaho in nineteen ninety two
in that standoff his wife and his son were killed by federal agents and he was part of the negotiation to help resolve that standoff was conducted by james bo greiz and so greiz and weaver have come here thinking they can do something to stop the kind of suffering that weaver says he went through after that
so they are inside talking
greiz has said that he will come out and he will talk to news media when he gets out a news conference is planned
we plan to cover that of course unless the freemen tell him that a part of the condition of negotiating is not to talk to the news media
we expect that he will be talking to us and of course we'll be reporting that to you later tonight
don you know randy weaver is such a big figure in all of this
why was he not allowed in by the f. b. i.
it's not clear why he was not allowed in
he told us today that washington had told the local guys here not to let weaver in
that's his view of it although he did say that he was hopeful he would get in a little bit later on and that if he did get in he would keep coming back to continue negotiations
o. k. thank you c. n. n.'s don knapp outside brusett montana
president clinton is stepping up the pressure on republicans in congress to put aside partisan differences and negotiate a balanced budget
c. n. n.'s jill dougherty joins us from the white house with more on the story
jill
well jeanne president clinton didn't miss a beat this week after working out a deal with republicans on this year's budget
now he says he wants more but republicans are calling that a ploy
wrapping up a week on the offensive president clinton speaking to realtors once more challenged republicans to work with him on a long term balanced budget deal
there is more than enough savings in common to both these plans to do that and provide a modest tax cut
right now all we need to do is to sit down and make the agreement and i made it clear that i want to meet with the leaders of congress as soon as possible
earlier in a tough talking radio address he rapped some republican knuckles
if you torpedo these negotiations today after so much progress has been made on a balanced budget simply to create a campaign issue for later
the american people will see through that with their eyes closed
but republicans aren't biting
if he's prepared to offer an honest real balanced budget we'll work with him
but a phony political document for reelection purposes betrays all of our children and i think is exactly what liberal politicians have done for two generations
republicans charge the president isn't really serious about his seven year balanced budget that it's all part of his election year posturing
yet mr. clinton's relentless drive to put republicans and specifically his likely presidential challenger majority leader bob dole on the defensive seems to be working
oh it's terrific public relations and they're great at it
and you know what if we don't get better at public relations and i hear this all over the country if we don't get better at public relations we could lose the whole enchilada
republicans will get a chance to improve their p. r. performance when members of congress return to washington this later this week and besides a long term seven year balanced budget agreement that everyone eventually would like to get they still have to work out a ninety seven fiscal year ninety seven budget and that's a pretty tall order for a presidential election year
jeanne
jill the president will commit his whitewater testimony to tape on sunday
what can you tell us about how this will be done and what he's likely to say
well we've been getting some details on that
as for what he will say we actually cannot say because that is part of the testimony and will not be known for quite a while
but how it will actually unfold is the president will be videotaped here in a kind of teleconference setup in which the presiding judge will be in little rock
the president will be here in the residence in the map room and he will be testifying
there will be quite a large cast of characters approximately two dozen lawyers lawyers for the people involved james and susan mcdougal who are actually the people involved in this court case not the president and lawyers for the president himself white house lawyers people from the from the justice department et cetera
so it will be quite a large group of people but again the white house says that it does not want this videotape to be gotten out physically
it says that the transcript of it what eventually will be entered into the court record should be available to the public but not the actual videotape because the white house does not want it getting into the hands perhaps of republicans who might want to use it as a campaign tool
jill dougherty at the white house thank you
lit by the rays of the sun on mount olympus in greece and brought into los angeles by a chartered jet the olympic flame has begun its journey across the united states
sheryl kahn reports on the torch that was passed to both old and new generations of olympic athletes today
the olympic flame arrived in los angeles amid much fanfare
encased in a canister to make sure it stayed lit it was treated like a visiting dignitary and no wonder the flame started its journey march thirtieth in olympia greece site of the first olympic games more than two thousand years ago
back then a truce was declared during the games and runners sped through greece proclaiming the beginning of the olympics
they're continuing that tradition now but unlike ancient times this time the torch wound up on a chartered jet to los angeles and then a helicopter being whisked away to a ceremony at the l. a. coliseum home of the nineteen thirty two and eighty four summer olympics
displaying nerves of steel and no fear of fire the high priestess of greece held onto the flame until it was time to light the cauldron at the coliseum
first runner gold medalist rayford johnson lit the torch and headed through the coliseum and out onto the street
johnson handed the torch to the granddaughter of olympic legend jesse owens who handed it off to olympic gold medalist janet evans who will swim in her third olympics in july
i've done a lot of things with the olympics and had a lot of olympic experiences but this really kind of ranks right up there with the best of them
evans passed the torch to compton school teacher scalley keith
keith is the first of more than five thousand community heroes non celebrity torch bearers selected for their good deeds
by carrying the torch you're involved even if it's a short segment
i'm part of the olympics
it feels fabulous
some corporations who are sponsoring the olympics got to send runners as well
that's how ann wells got in and she's carrying more than just the torch
i'm a little over four months pregnant so i just thought it might be a little better if i walk it
ten thousand runners or walkers will carry the torch through forty two states plus washington d. c. across fifteen thousand miles
the journey will take eighty two days and the longer stretches will be traveled by train plane bicycle boat and even horseback
but what if somebody trips
what if the flame goes out
no problem
they're prepared for every possibility
escort vehicles will be toting canisters with emergency flames and extra runners will be along to rescue anyone who stumbles
the flame is scheduled to arrive for the opening ceremonies in atlanta july nineteenth
if you want to see if before then you should be able to
organizers say the torch will pass within a two hour drive of ninety percent of the u. s. population
sheryl kahn for c. n. n. los angeles
a tough talking former green beret is trying to get the anti government freemen to give up
bo gritz helped agents negotiate an end to the nineteen ninety two siege at ruby ridge idaho
he met with reporters last hour after seven hours with the freemen
c. n. n.'s don knapp is outside the montana ranch
don any sign of movement on day thirty four
jeanne there is sign of movement we think
this cold and windy day may have brought some new developments perhaps significant developments to this long and so far fruitless standoff
two outside negotiators two negotiators who are said to be sympathetic to the freemen view did spend seven hours inside the ranch house at missimi see over my right shoulder there and on the long lens as we take a close look at the house where the people are this evening after these negotiations continued all day today
we will tell you that these two men tried to bring a case to negotiators to try to get them to end this long standoff
bo gritz of course who takes some credit for the for helping at least to end the standoff in ruby ridge idaho in nineteen ninety two the standoff that saw the shooting and deaths of randy weaver's wife and son
that person because of those reasons has come here and he tells us that he was met with open arms by the people who were here
they also said they wanted to see randy weaver and we understand now that randy weaver will be going in tomorrow
both of those gentlemen came out of here about two and a half hours ago
as we look at the car that came up the road we could see that in the driver's seat was bo gritz
next to him was jack mclamb
bo gritz gave us a salute
jack mclamb gave us a thumbs up indicating what we were to hear a little bit later a fairly optimistic view of what happened
we went to the news conference and we heard from them that they are fairly confident that the hurdles that stand between them and the standoff can be resolved
they think they have a way of resolving the standoff
these guys are the salt of the earth
everyone of them have sidearms strapped on them they have a gun in every room it would appear but they are not violent people i don't think by nature
they will only use firearms if their lives are threatened
their hands are big and rough
they've obviously been a part of the land for a long time
they're mad because they said if you few media would go to the courthouse here in garfield county and investigate what has happened you would see the skullduggery
but i was much encouraged because for example they said we would consider gerry spence as a defense and i had suggested john dekamp
the fact that they would consider an attorney as a defense tells me that we've gotten much closer to an arrangement here that might work for both of us
their idea of a grand jury is somewhat similar to what the state legislature has offered only they're saying in the state legislature to stand up and state their case has no jurisprudence and they want it to be something a little more toward article three in the constitution
but it's not it didn't sound like it was unreasonable
for example i said well who do you make a grand jury up of and they said well it should you know it could be people but in the regular grand juries the prosecuting attorney completely controls it and you aren't allowed to present any evidence in this kind of thing and as far as i know that's true
so the federal government i of course will debrief the f. b. i. negotiators on this so that maybe they can do some work to bring us closer
i don't feel like there is a lazarus rich man abraham gap here
i think this thing is bridgeable
gritz also said that he doesn't think that any of those inside are white supremacists
he made a big deal about saying that they're just salt of the earth kind of people
he also said that a tentative deal that the f. b. i. seemed to have yesterday through a family member that went in to visit that would have brought out of that house a woman by the name of gloria and her two children failed at the last minute because of some wording on a document
apparently this gloria is facing some charges concerning the children and she wanted to have a better definition of whether or not the charges would be dropped
he said he'll be working on that and taking that back in and seeing if they can clarify that and perhaps get an agreement
he suspects that they are a little bit short of food in there but he says that they do have a firm resolve and stay in and once again he said that they welcomed him with open arms
they want to see randy weaver
he's going to try to get randy weaver inside tomorrow and the next few days
we're going to see if the f. b. i. will allow that and if that can be accomplished
jeanne
don you mentioned that they appeared to be a little bit short on food
did gritz share anything else about the condition on the ranch the number of people the kind of weaponry they have their mental attitude
he did say that he saw weapons everywhere that they were well armed but went on to stress that they were non violent
he also said that he was concerned at first because he didn't see the girls but he said they did show up and they looked healthy and happy
he said one girl lamented that she was not able to have a taco bell but he said that he didn't seem to think that anybody was malnourished
so that's about all the picture that we got from him of life on the ranch but apparently he did observe that they were short of food
don knapp in montana thanks for joining us
the cease fire between israel and hezbollah guerrillas in lebanon is just over twenty five hours old and now that sixteen days of fierce fighting appear to have subsided tens of thousands of refugees from both sides of the border are returning to their home
as c. n. n.'s brent sadler reports in southern lebanon grim reminders of the violence remain
the rush home began within hours of the cross border cease fire coming into effect a constant stream of traffic heading to south lebanon the refugees using the same route that had been under gunfire only hours before
there were some smiles aboard the thousands of trucks and cars but not for very long
they soon discovered the extent of the damage
huge bomb craters slowed down the flow of vehicles
people prayed that their homes were still standing after more than two weeks of israeli attacks but first they had to navigate the many obstacles of war
some village communities were completely cut off by the damage to roads
in desperation many families abandoned their vehicles and reached their properties by foot a long trek across difficult terrain
communities were reunited amid the ruins
on the outskirts of nabatir where hezbollah is strong government workers began to repair broken power lines one of the first priorities
hezbollah supporters hoisted a banner condemning the american backed peace plan but the guerrillas translate the new understanding between themselves and the israelis as a victory for their resistance
israel was unable to destroy one katyusha rocket launcher says this hezbollah sheikh
that shows shimon peres who was victorious
for the returning refugees there may be calm now but south lebanon remains a war zone a place where lebanon's resistance to israel's occupation goes on
in bombing south lebanon israel claims it was gunning for hezbollah but the guerrilla force remains intact
it is lebanese civilians who have paid the highest price for the conflict
a family weeping by the roadside of the village of mansuri south of tyre paid such a price
they found that their home was hit during an air strike the building collapsed into a pile of rubble
they had built it themselves
laylah and hassan mudaleh now left with nothing
hassan is a carpenter and works for united nations
this is what his home looked like before
he can only hope that the lebanese government will compensate him for the loss
my life is destroyed it's destroyed
i don't know how can i build another house out where i live
in khana where israeli shells killed about a hundred civilians they're waiting for a mass funeral
national leaders will participate in a day of mourning
lebanon is still in pain but amid the suffering a smile of relief and hope that civilians will be spared further tragedy
brent sadler c. n. n. tyre south lebanon
since they're spending most of the winter knee deep in snow many americans are finding themselves up to their hubcaps in headaches
the snow ice and salt may be gone from the roads but the void they left behind lingers
reporter jim angle fills us in
last winter seemed like it would never end and for drivers all over the country it has not
the snow and rain left some nasty scars on the nation's roads even some pedestrians had to take evasive action
and for those who drive for a living it's an urban minefield
i've been driving a cab for thirty three years and this year is the absolute worst i have ever seen it
it's a safety issue ultimately
either the act of avoiding a pothole at high speed will cause somebody to swerve into another lane and that could cause an accident or just hitting a big enough pothole and losing control
there are no figures on how much potholes cost in accidents but there is plenty of evidence they're leaving a big dent in many drivers' bank accounts
americans will spend two billion dollars this year paying for repairs from bad roads
a lot of times you can't even see them until you're right up on them because like they'd be level with the road and before you know it boom
well he hit a pothole and this wheel just came over the vehicle and with the lugnuts and everything
hubcap tom's is sort of a pothole warehouse and they know how bad the roads are
when unsuspecting drivers plunge into a small crater their next stop is here
we got three four hundred people in a day come by here
yeah it's a circus
sometimes it's down here two blocks lined up
maybe these guys have a piece of the presidential limo
mr. clinton went golfing recently and came back two under par on hubcaps
cheaper forms of public transportation can't escape a pounding either
the cities are trying
baltimore for instance has filled some seventy seven thousand potholes just since january new york one hundred twenty five thousand potholes so far but in some cities potholes are still as plentiful as politicians' promises and the spring rains will bring even more
as one street commissioner put it potholes are just like the sun they're out there every morning jim angle for c. n. n. washington
in a land like china where the pressure to conform is intense it's a rare individual who can stand up to that pressure both professionally and personally
a profile is the exception to the rule from c. n. n.'s andrea koppel in beijing
iquot is at times a reflection of real life in the beijing modern dance ensemble and its founder twenty nine year old gin shay are as natural a combination as yin and yang
modern dance is a late comer to china and gin shay a late bloomer to her sexuality
when i was a man when i was a boy whatever
i didn't hate myself
until one year ago gin shay had been among china's best male dancers whose career onstage began in the mid seventies when at age nine he was selected to dance in a military ballet troupe
and although as a grown man who lived and studied modern dance in the united states and europe he enjoyed homosexual relationships
gin shay says something was always missing
of course i loved my friends but they would be saying to me you are too much like a girl then i said maybe then also the men i'm interested in not as really gay men always was whatever bisexual or heterosexual men
that's why i got more knowledge i can get operation to be a woman
the second of her two sex change operations lasted sixteen hours and nearly cost gin shay the use of her legs
whereas in western countries these operations are nothing new chinese doctors have had little experience with transsexuals
traditional chinese society has had even less experience dealing with let alone accepting them
most of them change their name and move to new places start their life again i think but i think i cannot from my twenty eight year career dancing i'm not going to do that it's too much
and i have to come back to my society
i just change my identity card i just changed my gender from male to female
the name is the same gin shay
after months of recuperation and rehabilitation late last year gin shay made her debut performance dancing to her choreography in her own modern dance company as a woman
sometimes i'm hard to express my feeling
i have to dance
i don't know one word in chinese we say
something you can just understand
i have lots of people knowing me see me come dance
a dancer
dance
o. k. she's a woman but she's a different woman
do you feel pretty
i think so
i think so
anyway i think i'm fine
and finally happy
andrea koppel c. n. n. beijing
what do you want to be when you grow up it's a question often asked of children and one that often goes unanswered
an annual open house at the university of georgia is hoping to change all of that at least for a few of the undecided
c. n. n.'s dave hennen reports
it's a rite of spring
the university of georgia veterinarian school like many others across the country holds an annual open house
from preschool all the way up to high school nearly five thousand kids gathered here on the u. g. a. campus not only to pique their interest in animals but also to interest them in a possible future career in veterinary medicine
junior surgery students operate on injured stuffed animals
kids get up close and personal with some pretty snazzy equipment like the endiscope used to investigate those hard to reach places
for young cowpokes there's the calf roping lesson
you don't have to rope cattle to get into veterinarian school but getting in can be just as tough
veterinary college is not an easy subject
unlike medical school we deal with more than one species and in many ways it's much more difficult than medical school is so the kids have got to be really prepared and they've got to be really enthusiastic
it is a tough four years
do you want to be a veterinarian when you grow up
yeah
i gotta think about this
if i have to clean up their poop no
the farm animals on display belong to the professors
most don't seem to mind the extra attention
after a day full of animal activities it's time to pick up the bear from the recovery room and think about the future
dave hennen c. n. n. reporting
heart bypass surgery u. s. surgeons perform five hundred thousand of the potentially life saving operations a year
but it can be brutal on a patient's body
c. n. n. medical correspondent andrew holtz reports some surgeons are testing a less invasive alternative that makes recovery a lot easier
heart bypass surgery is an ordeal
it can take up to two months to recover enough to return to work
some surgeons are trying to change all that with a new approach
i think it's the most dramatic step from a cardiac surgery standpoint that we've seen in the last fifteen years
instead of exposing the heart surgeons at stanford work through small cuts or ports in the chest using special tools to move and stitch blood vessels that feed the muscle of the heart
we're very excited
we've seen a patient ten days after his procedure out jogging
we've seen another patient three weeks after his procedure back on the golf course
the stanford researchers stop the heart and keep the patient alive with a heart lung machine as in conventional bypass surgery
at new york city's lenox hill hospital surgeons are trying their own version of heart bypass through small incisions but they operate on hearts that are beating
when they don't undergo heart lung machine cardiopulmonary bypass and bigger incisions their recovery rate is very quick
most of these people can get back to their usual lifestyle within a week
hugo stadler is one of them
on the day he left the hospital he and a friend couldn't hail a cab
we walked home from it was about a fifteen minute walk you know slow naturally
but i walked home and that was four days after the operation
like most patients offered the experimental bypass surgery hugo stadler had tried balloon angioplasty and similar procedures but each time the blockage in one of his heart arteries returned
surgeons say before they can directly challenge conventional bypass surgery they need more experience with working through these keyhole incisions
the lenox hill surgeons have operated on about one hundred patients three died
standford surgeons have tried their technique on ten patients all are doing well
they are about to try a similar approach to replacing heart valves
they stress it's all still very much an experiment
there's clearly a learning curve a steep learning curve
yet they're looking forward to the day when people can get the benefits of heart bypass surgery without all the trauma
andrew holtz c. n. n.
essential tremors cause uncontrollable shaking of the head voice and hands
katherine hepburn is probably the most famous of the estimated two million americans who suffer from the disorder
c. n. n. medical correspondent rhonda rowland reports patients now have a way to turn off their tremor with the wave of a magnetic wand
pouring water from one cup to another is a humiliating experience for stanley klar
he has essential tremor
it keeps him from doing so much
my wife cuts my food
she butters my bread
she has to put straws in any liquid that i drink
it's embarassing
stanley first noticed the shaking as a teenager but it didn't become debilitating until he retired several years ago
he's tried medications
but they worked for a while and then they stopped working so
well they didn't work at all
right
yeah
stanley has been offered another option that may relieve his tremors
a device called a thelamic stimulator can be placed in his brain which he can turn on and off
thelamic stimulation gives the patient the control over a certain area of their brain that's causing a visible motor problem this tremor that's been disabling them for years
the device can also help some parkinson's disease patients
this is day before stanley is to undergo surgery
and how are you feeling about what's going to happen tomorrow
i feel great
i feel great because i feel it's a positive step
what do you think will be the outcome
i can just be a person a whole person
this is how it works stanley stays awake during the procedure
it will take most of the day
using sophisticated computer mapping techniques doctors locate the thalamus
this is the part of the brain causing the tremor
next doctors use a wire with an electrical impulse to find the part of the thalamus likely to provide the best tremor control
during the process stanley is asked to perform tasks and talk
the process is long and tedious and carries some risk
somewhere between one to five percent of patients could have maybe even devastating complications during the operation or the time around the operation
the risks are very real
patients can lose the ability to speak
they may suffer partial paralysis
some even die
now it's late afternoon
with the correct location isolated the wire is run behind the ear under the skin to a pacemaker like device in the chest that controls the electrical stimulation
vanderbilt university is one of seven medical centers in the u. s. implanting the thelamic stimulator
even though the device won't cure tremors it should greatly improve a patient's day to day living
it's been three weeks since stanley had surgery
pouring water is much easier now
control over the tremor is not perfect although we never expected it to be one hundred percent control
with the wave of this magnet stanley turns the stimulator on and off allowing it to rest at night so that he has better tremor control the next day
suddenly you can shrug your shoulders and do what pretty much anyone does
the surgery is not permanent so if there is no improvement the device can be removed
although not a perfect solution for some who suffer from essential tremor or parkinson's disease the thelamic stimulator can offer the chance of being a whole person again
rhonda rowland c. n. n. nashville
well here's an update for you
it's been about three months since stanley klar had his surgery and he reports his tremor control is one hundred percent better
so what about some long term prospects
rhonda rowland introduces us to the first person in the u. s. to undergo the procedure for a firsthand account
three years ago the thelamic stimulator was unheard of in the united states but doctors in europe were using it so robert clark traveled to france to have the surgery
he says the results were immediate
i was the happiest person in the world
it was the best thing that's ever happened
but he hasn't been home free
patients need periodic adjustments almost like a car needs tune ups
but finally with the thelamic stimulator he's reaching his dream of teaching high school
how does it feel to teach the class here
exciting
i'm excited about it
it's a big step
you know i've thought about teaching for a while
now i can do it
the thelamic stimulator is still considered experimental
it's offered to patients who no longer get relief from their tremors by taking medications
if you want more information on this story or other c. n. n. news you can find us on the world wide web at c. n. n. dot com or access our site through the a. t. and t. business network
cigars are soaring in popularity these days
it seems that cigar bars are sprouting up all across the u. s. or another high profile celebrity is snapped smoking a stogie
and this week john f. kennedy's humidor commanded more than half a million dollars at the sotheby's auction
c. n. n.'s lucia newman traveled to the source to cuba where the cigar has always been king
he reads the news in the morning love stories or crime novels in the afternoons a voice that's transmitted throughout the building a voice that helps to keep the men and women who work here entertained
the announcer is a tradition almost as old as one of cuba's oldest and most respected cigar factories partagas
it's here that some of the world's finest tobaccos are made like the coeba considered by many the caviar of cigars
this factory was founded in one thousand eight hundred forty five and with all the upheavals that cubans have witnessed since then including the revolution there's one thing that hasn't changed the way they make cigars
when christopher columbus discovered america cuba was already growing tobacco which after being harvested is carefully selected and dried
the biggest and best leaves are left for the outside of the cigar
there are three types of tobacco strong medium and light and the percentage of each that's used determines the taste of a cigar something the people who work here say they can't live without
if there was no tobacco i'd feel something vital was missing in my life
i've been smoking it for more than forty years
each cigar is handmade
the bigger the cigar the greater the skill required to make it
after they're rolled they're put into wooden molds which are pressed to make the cigar compact and even
the mouthpiece is pasted and molded on with a tasteless odorless vegetable glue
this cigar maker is seventy years old and says he knows what keeps him looking young
it's smoking cuban cigars the best and the healthiest
and it's not just cubans smoking them
these days they're sold almost everywhere in the world except the united states which has a trade ban on cuba
cuban cigar makers though say they'll just keep rolling them out especially since workers at partagas can smoke as many cigars as they want
lucia newman c. n. n. havana
well don't be fooled into thinking that cigar smoking is safe
they contain the same chemical carcinogens as cigarettes and have even higher concentrations of tar and nicotine
and cigar smokers do worse than non smokers when it comes to lung mouth and throat cancer
thanks for joining us i'm karen maginnis and welcome to your health
as the countdown to the olympics dips below the one hundred day mark officials in atlanta are stepping up their efforts to get the city ready
but the focus goes beyond the location to the athletes themselves and the tough test each will face even after the competition is over
c. n. n. senior medical correspondent dan rutz reports on the drug testing procedures olympic officials have developed
tens of millions will watch the elite compete in the atlanta olympic games
but the victories won't count until the winners perform for another audience the olympic committee's team of drug testers
it's a sign of the times athletes know that many drugs from steroids to stimulants can help them play better and no one is above suspicion
i don't think that the public is interested in seeing sort of chemical warriors out there on the field
there's no honor and dignity in that
in the nineteen eighty eight seoul south korea games ben johnson of canada got caught with banned drugs in his system and stripped of his gold medal
the barcelona games four years later were said to be cleaner
strict enforcement and severe penalties appeared to work as in recent years fewer athletes are testing positive
it started at somewhere above four percent dropped down into the three and then the two percent range and for the past five years or so has hung around at least in this country just below one percent
not many cheaters but enough to convince world class athletes like michael johnson that while urine on demand sounds demeaning it helps keep people honest
i'm extremely pleased with it because i was instrumental as part of the athletes advisory in getting some of those things in place
drugs known to boost performance are banned
anabolic steroids which mimic male hormones give athletes bigger muscles and make them more aggressive
there are strict controls on these drugs for any purpose but many other drugs on the hit list are available right over the counter
stimulants often found in cold relievers are banned
even too much caffeine can disqualify an olympic athlete
narcotic painkillers are out as are diuretics a class of drugs that can be used to hide the presence of other banned chemicals
the drug testing situation is made more complex by an athlete's legitimate medical needs
the u. s. olympic drug education committee maintains a hot line to field questions from athletes
and when you see these tomes of banned substances i mean a listing of forty and fifty pages sure the athletes are confused
but they're also held responsible for what goes into their body at least almost always
when clean cut olympic swimming prospect jessica fascie tested positive for steroids last summer the fifteen year old was shocked and devastated
she said the test was either sabotaged or her gatorade maliciously spiked with the drug
the sanctions committee believed her story recalling perhaps the mean spirited knee bashing figure skater nancy kerrigan suffered before the winter games two years ago
but some say tough luck that the presence of an illegal drug no matter how it got there is all that should matter
i think the strict liability keeps it clean
that if in fact the test is valid and the test does show a banned substance that a penalty does occur and that's about the only way that i foresee there being consistency across the board for policing drug testing
some drugs including human growth hormone and a blood doping compound that helps the body make red blood cells are banned but escape detection in conventional tests
but scientists are working on the problem and the atlanta games will feature a million dollar marvel from europe the mass spectrometer is said to be three times more sensitive than standard tests
it will assure that those who go for the gold are really making it on their own
dan rutz c. n. n. atlanta
not all athletes want to speed up or bulk up
for example an olympic shooter might want to slow his heartrate to be steadier
now for that reason officials have come up with sports specific lists of banned drugs
this past week on the stock market a real boomer especially high tech stocks on the nasdaq stock market but when it comes to striking it rich our first story today is about an inventor who did it with low tech
thomas edison said invention is one percent inspiration ninety nine percent perspiration in these days most inventors sweat over business and marketing plans
beverly schuch takes a look at the lessons one inventor learned by literally putting his eggs in one basket
this is an eggsercizer
a sponge rubber squeezy thing for working your hand and forearm muscles
mark davis a nuclear power plant inspector by day thought it up in the middle of the night six years ago
since then he has sold more than seven hundred thousand of them at eight dollars a pop
he also earned a wealth of knowledge about how to turn an idea into a profit
first go to a trade show and learn the business o. k.
second thing is to figure out how much money you need to start your company and double or triple that number
the u. s. patent office issues more than one hundred thousand patents a year
only a fraction ever make money
for the inventor perseverance and a thick skin are essential
i met with a patent attorney who told me to give up on the idea six years ago
he said you can't patent this i'll never forget his words
he had an ash tray sitting on his table
he said it would be like me trying to patent this ashtray
davis got his patent but versatility put him in the black
he markets the eggsercizer to athletes musicians and to people battling stress and chronic wrist fatigue
made my plans to hit all these different markets and to make sure it is not a one widget one product that just peaks and dies
that is the hardest part
reinvesting profits has worked for davis but it is a strategy some experts warn against
once you've had that good success with something you begin to think you are almost invincible and it will happen again just that way
well it might but it might not
i'd hate not to have something to fall back on
i think you always ought to have a little bit of a nest egg
then again you could put them all in one basket
that is your money beverly schuch c. n. n. financial news new york
but if you haven't come up with the next great mousetrap and just want to tide yourself over with a mutual fund or two our next report might be helpful
hordes of new investors are shoveling money into those mutual funds and money managers and regulators are looking hard at whether these newcomers really understand what they're getting into
william rukeyser has the story
if pouring over mutual fund prospectuses isn't your idea of a happening weekend don't feel too bad
even some people who do it end up confused
i don't know what they mean
it's in legalese not in english
the prospectuses generally contain a lot of information that is not useful to the investors
it's an overload of information
do you read the prospectuses for the funds you buy or not
well yes and no
i look at them and put throw them away
there must be a better way to brief would be investors about a fund's risk and potential rewards and now the securities and exchange commission and the fund companies are getting serious about finding the way
last week the industry association the investment company institute released results of a major survey of what recent investors want to know about mutual fund risks
among the key findings were these more than two thirds of the investors said they had reviewed risks before buying
most say they prefer to learn about a fund's risks from a simple bar chart of past performance and from narrative statements rather than from quantitative measures of risk such as standard deviation or
the average mutual fund prospectus is too lengthy and legalistic to make finding this kind of information easy
since last summer eight companies have been experimenting with a short standardized supplementary document called a profile prospectus
on a single sheet these make it easy to compare for example the annual fees funds charge their investors
the s. e. c. is expected to rule this summer on whether all funds should issue profile prospectuses and on what they should include
i'd be pretty confident from the little bit i know they're not going to require a one number risk disclosure because they're well aware of the limitations of standard deviation as you and i are
you really can't get where you want to be with one number
with or without one number the forecast for fund buyers is slightly less fog
that's your money
i'm william s. rukeyser for c. n. n. financial news new york
few people will face staggering jury awards like the forty three million dollar judgment against bernhard goetz the so called new york subway shooter but thousands of americans face court orders to pay more money than they can afford
fred katayama looks at the strategies for both the winners and the losers
the cost of losing a civil suit can be devastating
it can shape the rest of your life in terms of reduced income and lost property
juries are increasingly generous
last year the average compensatory damage award was sixty five thousand dollars up nearly thirty percent from the previous year
so what do you do if you lose a civil case and find that you're liable for more than you can pay
the options are number one an appeal
if that won't work consider how you can legally transfer assets
you cannot fraudulently convey property
you can consider chapter seven or chapter thirteen bankruptcy but quite often that is not an available option if the action is or the judgment is based on an intentional act
on the other hand if you win in court what steps do you take to get the money that has been awarded
first thing you do is try to find out what property the defendant has
you find that some of that property may be exempt from attachment in aid of the execution for example the defendant's home or some part of the home depending upon what state you are in
then you can attach the defendant's wages
of course laws differ from state to state
tactics have to be modified but lawyers on both sides say the jury award is just the beginning not the end of a very complicated process
that's your money fred katayama c. n. n. financial news new york
well mutual fund managers don't use all their creativity to pick the stocks and bonds they buy
as bill rukeyser reports
they have some of it or save some of it i should say to dream up new ways of charging investors for managing the fund
few investors and maybe none can tell in advance which mutual funds will go up the most so it makes sense to pay attention to fees and sales charges
some funds are making that as hard to do as they can
mutual funds have two basic ways of relieving you of some of your investment dollars
they all charge management and other fees usually figured as an annual percentage of the amount invested
those percentages vary wildly but the overall level has been rising especially among smaller newer funds
in addition to annual fees almost two thirds of mutual funds also impose a load or sales charge and they are getting fiendishly inventive in finding new ways to do it
they can be sold with an up front sales charge you pay four or five percent right when you buy it that is generally an a share
there is a b. share which is a back end sales charge you pay when you pull your money out of the fund and then there is the c. share which is the level load which you pay nothing on the way in nothing on the way out but there is a higher expense ratio while you own the fund
do load funds charge more because they're better
research has established no relationship between sales charges and subsequent market performance and of course sales charges reduce the amount of your money that is working for you in the market
still at lipper analytical services which tracks thousands of funds they don't feel that no load funds are for everybody
funds for the most part almost two thirds are sold to a third party like a financial planner
paying a load is a fair price to pay for good advice
there are some wonderful funds that charge loads and to say to yourself no i'm only going to buy no load funds you've excluded an awful lot of terrific funds
remember though that they need to be at least four or five percent more terrific than the no load competition
that's your money
i'm william s. rukeyser for c. n. n. financial news new york
earlier this week kitty pilgrim sat down with gary belsky of money magazine to answer some questions out viewers have sent in
time now to answer your questions about managing your money and our topics for the week foreign earned income exclusion and which sources the professionals use when making their stock picks
well our first question comes to us from irving thomas junior of pistoia italy and he writes i am a professional athlete living and working ten months of each year overseas
can i claim bonafide residence in italy and receive the seventy thousand dollar taxable income deduction on my federal taxes
well joining us now to answer that is gary belsky from money magazine
it's sort of a dream problem isn't it
yeah i'm not sure if iving plays basketball or soccer but he could probably beat me in both
unfortunately the answer to his question is number in order to qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion which basically allows you to not pay taxes on up to seventy thousand dollars of income if you live overseas full time in order to qualify for that you either have to live in the country three hundred thirty out of three hundred sixty five days of a tax year or you have to own a residence have no intention of leaving the country in other words moving back to the u. s. and you have to have lived there for one full year at one time in the past
so he does not qualify for this foreign earned income exclusion unfortunately
he could boost he could boost his stay
yeah there are other ways
he could boost his stays and also the one good thing is that the u. s. and italy has a treaty the u. s. has this treaty with many countries that allows him to deduct against the taxes that he owes in the u. s. any taxes that he paid in italy
so in some cases depending on his income that may actually work out to be a better deal that using the foreign earned income exclusion
so if he pays taxes in italy he'll be able to deduct it according to the treaty probably dollar for dollar against any taxes he owes in his u. s. return
all right so he has a little bit of a break and a great lifestyle too
and a great lifestyle yeah
our next question comes to us from timothy durham of walls mississippi and he writes what sources do professional stock pickers recommend for individuals to use when making their picks gary we get this question quite a bit
yes
everyone wants to beat the pros right
well first of all we actually asked a lot of folks what the best way for individuals to find information is and a lot of them recommended personal finance magazines like money
i'm not saying that to toot our own horn but rather these kinds of magazines do a lot of research for you
if you are willing to spend more time to do the research the number one pick that all of the pros recommend is valueline
that is a newsletter it's almost like a giant research service that is updated weekly and they cover one thousand seven hundred stocks
they give they talk about their finances they give a lot of numbers they give a little written report
they also have a ranking of timeliness of investing and also the safety of the company
and they provide very good information
right
a lot of statistics
a lot of statistics but also this ranking system allows you to know a number one ranking means this is the company they say buy now and number five means stay away for the moment
and their record over time is a pretty good record so valueline is very good
all right
now how do you get ahold of this
this is usually in libraries
it's usually exactly
you can subscribe to it
they advertise in the wall street journal for example all the time
it's a little expensive
it's several hundred dollars a year although again if it's going to make you a lot of money it's worth it
but if you want to try it out almost every major public library probably even the one in walls mississippi or in a nearby town subscribes to valueline
they update it every week
you can go in you can xerox the pages of the companies you're interested in investing in
is it it's one company per page so it's an easy xerox
one company per page
exactly
they update it every week and it's a very very good system for quick and dirty information not dirty bad but dirty fast
quick and dirty that's a journalistic term right
yes
thanks gary
well if you have a question send it our way
write to your money questions c. n. n. five penn plaza new york n. y. one zero zero zero one
please include your phone number
there's a new collecting fad sweeping the nation action figures not old barbies or g. i. joes but a whole new cast of characters offering the diligent collector an off beat investment opportunity
john metaxas has the story
godzilla is a little hot under the collar these days
he is not nearly as popular as the characters from spawn the youngbloods or the wild cats
never heard of them
well certainly you know star wars
just a few of the new action figures many of them comic book or movie related that collectors are scrambling for
adults are collecting like myself simply for the fact yes an investment purpose
a fella with a small head was worth about six hundred dollars
find the ones that are rare called short pack because manufacturers ship a limited amount
in the new star wars series the two short packed items were the princess leia and the c. three p. o. very hard to get very desirable for the collector
joe already has his
she has you know no resemblance to carrie fisher
she has these heavy cheeks and some people rumor that her chest is a little bit too big
and look for variations
topaz ultrahero here the same character the same figure but on a black card
that card difference is designed directly for the collectors
many stores like f. a. o. schwartz will have exclusive collections made for them
marvel did one for us this year as well as last year which we still have a few pieces
if you buy it elsewhere on a secondary market it's i've even heard it's doubled or tripled the price already
and last but not least keep the figures in their packages
keeping the package very neat so that it's not bent or crinkled or spindle mutilated can increase its value
there are dozens of magazines that will help you get started
the collectors we spoke to recommend action figure digest action figure news and toy review and toy shop
you can find these at comic book stores as well as schedules for toy fares where you'll find an active market in these figures
if you have a love for the character and if you read the comics that are related to these characters then it makes all sense to collect them
and if your figures do not increase in value you can always play with them
that's your money john metaxas c. n. n. business news new york
the guns are silent in the middle east
it's all things considered i'm daniel zwerdling
the people of lebanon and northern israel enjoyed a quiet and peaceful saturday as a result of the ceasefire announced yesterday between israel and hezbollah
the deal which was brokered by secretary of state warren christopher ended sixteen days of fighting which killed more than one hundred fifty lebanese and forced thousands of israelis and hundreds of thousands of lebanese to flee their homes
in lebanon today waves of displaced families began returning home
their cars jammed the road from beirut all the way to towns and villages in southern lebanon
jennifer griffin traveled with some of those families and sent us this report
mahmoud nassar woke his family at dawn today packed them in a car and left the school in beirut which had become their home
they headed south to their real home in the village of etchit
when they arrived nassar found israeli rockets had crushed the roof of his home and shattered all the windows in his general store
everything is damaged
this house is damaged and everyone in the world who is coming back from beirut will see every house is damaged
nassar's first task was to bury a dead man presumably a neighbor who was killed two weeks ago when an israeli shell landed near his house
the dead man's identity remains a mystery
his body had been abandoned since the village was cut off by constant israeli artillery raids
upstairs from nassar's shop his sister and her eight children are busy removing the rubble and shards of glass that are piled in their living room
a piece of concrete falls from the roof hitting a man on the head nearly knocking him unconscious
nassar's sister wafa explains how she felt when she saw her house
when she was coming back to her home she find her home is damaged
she was crying and she was very nervous to see that
so she thanks god she's still alive with her family
and so as nearly half a million other refugees scurry to return home and survey the damage the thought of exploding artillery shells has been replaced by honking vehicles as bumper to bumper traffic continues to clog all roads leading south
for national public radio i'm jennifer griffin in beirut
in the arab and muslim world the ceasefire agreement negotiated this week by secretary christopher was hailed to day as a victory for syria and for the hezbollah movement in lebanon
the foreign minister of iran said his government is very satisfied with the agreement because it leaves hezbollah in his words free to struggle freely against israeli forces and the syrian government released a statement today emphasizing the important role that it will play in monitoring the ceasefire in southern lebanon
but n. p. r.'s tom gjelten reports that yesterday's agreement also showed that the united states is still the key diplomatic player and not just in the middle east
the seven days of diplomacy that produced yesterday's agreement began with foreign ministers from around the world parading before syrian president hafez assad
when secretary christopher showed up in damascus last saturday he found susana anelli from italy there representing the european union
the french foreign minister herve de charette was also there along with yevgeny primakov from russia and aliak barvaliati from iran
assad seemed to enjoy the attention he was getting
on monday he deliberately left christopher waiting while he met with primakov
a day later he snubbed christopher entirely saying he was too busy to receive him
but when the negotiations reached the critical stage it was to christopher alone that assad turned
colonel terrence taylor is assistant director of the i. i. s. s. the international institute for strategic studies in london
it comes really comes back down to the stark simplicity of they want to deal with an interlocutor they can have an influence a strong influence on the others
i mean in the case of syria they know the u. s. is the one that counts with israel
so if they want to talk sense with somebody and get their points across and get their position protected as best possible they have to talk to the united states not france or britain or one of the other european powers
this tendency to see the united states as the one superpower that can deliver has become common
in the negotiations that led to the bosnian peace agreement serbian president slobodan milosovic made clear he wanted to deal mainly with the united states
the north korean government continues to insist it will talk peace only with washington
colonel taylor's institute called attention to this pattern of u. s. global dominance in its annual strategic survey released this week
one of the report's key conclusions taylor says is that the end of the cold war has meant that countries do not cooperate in their security policies as much as they used to prompting the united states to act increasingly on its own
there isn't a global system anymore and this new situation is only just beginning to be sort of recognized by the united states
i mean the united states is actually in a sense being forced to recognize it and being compelled to exercise its power and leadership because it's become clear that in this very unstable and chaotic environment this is the only thing that counts
the i. i. s. s. points to the u. s. led nato mission in bosnia and the deployment of american battle ships off the shores of china as evidence that the united states is again showing military leadership in the world and using its clout to advance its interests
multi lateral negotiations and collective efforts are out big stick diplomacy is back in
the united states is still the number one superpower the i. i. s. s. concludes
but the institute warns that china is competing for global influence
the institute also advises that the greatest world powers remain vulnerable to the vagaries of terrorist acts and the report advises that states throughout the world need to learn twenty first century techniques for dealing with local and regional conflicts
one lesson from bosnia lebanon and other hot sports the i. i. s. s. says is that a region will benefit from world attention only when world powers decide that it's in their interest to become involved
otherwise says taylor a country is likely to find itself out of luck
where the great powers' interests are not being challenged or not affected they tend to withdraw
and this is what's happening in africa and making africa a very unstable place and in some parts it's being reduced to banditry
the institute had one cautionary note about developments in the united states
isolationist tendencies in the congress and fragile public support for american commitments abroad the i. i. s. s. reported could yet cause the united states to retreat from its leadership role in asia the middle east and beyond
the institute said that would be disastrous for the world
i'm tom gjelten in washington
as secretary of state warren christopher zipped back and forth this past week from jerusalem to damascus and back to jerusalem again then back to damascus negotiating the latest middle east peace agreement he was practicing what has come to be known as the art of shuttle diplomacy and we found ourselves wondering what actually goes on during a typical negotiating session between a secretary of state and a middle eastern leader once they lay out their basic philosophical and political and military positions what sort of psychological posturing does each leader engage in what sort of strategic dance to convince his antagonist to make concessions and sign an agreement
and for some insights we called on another participant in shuttle diplomacy margaret tutwiler
she was the state department's spokesperson during the bush administration under secretary of state jim baker and she joined baker as he conducted a round of shuttle diplomacy five years ago which helped convince israel syria the palestinians and other parties to sit down for the first time for face to face peace negotiations in madrid
baker and christopher both had to negotiate with the same man president hafez assad of syria
and tutwiler said assad was a master a frustrating master of the art
president assad from observations is not someone who really cares whether you're at ease or not
he is deadly serious about the brief before him
he has incredible endurance
i don't know if you've read jim baker's book on his years at the state department but he refers to it one chapter as bladder diplomacy
meaning
not very flattering and not very diplomatic but what it meant was i recall one meeting that went for nine hours and forty five minutes and finally jim baker turned to president assad and said you win
i've got to take a restroom break and he he's we met in the old palace
he now meets in a new palace that was being built when we were at state up on top of a hill
you met literally in a room that was very small
president assad sat staring straight across the room and his interlocutor secretary baker had to sit the exact same way so it was very awkward
you had to turn sideways in that chair
and this is weird
so instead of sitting face to face as you and i are doing
correct
they sat parallel to each other and so secretary baker would have to twist his neck ninety degrees to look at the
correct and in fact even in the new palace when you look on the t. v. and see the pictures of secretary christopher and president assad it's the same seating arrangement it's just a different building
and what do you think was the purpose of that
it's just his preferred manner
i have no idea why he does it
other arab leaders would comment on it also to us lightly
it was just his way and after all he's head of state when you're there you sit the way he wants you to sit
the other thing that struck me about the room we met in it was painted this very very pale nondescript green and about once i guess i can't remember every two hours they would bring in a small glass of this very warm lemonade
that was it
that sounds nice a gracious gesture
sounds nice
you're sitting in a room
it's about one hundred degrees
there's no air circulation in this room whatsoever
the entire room is with this very very very thick bulletproof glass
there's one door in and out of this room
you're sitting in very large stuffed chairs that have a type of a velvet type of material on them
on some days when it was warm it was an endurance test to literally stay awake
and seriously do you think that's what it was i mean beyond being sort of funny
it was not a comfortable setting without question
you know i'm not picking on these examples to make light of these negotiations but
they were deadly serious
exactly and in secretary baker's own book much of which i have read he goes out of his way to say that he felt that assad was setting up the structure and the look and the feel of the negotiations to help his side obviously and that one way he would do this was whenever baker or one of your colleagues would be seeming to make a very telling point seeming to be on the verge of winning a point with president assad assad would sort of interrupt the conversation and go into a long rambling baker says very boring monologue about the history of the middle east
correct
i was in a number of those meeting where he would do that
in fact sometimes he would repeat history stories to us that he had told before and sometimes they could run as much as an hour
and what would be the point of that these long history lessons
maybe he was trying to buy time so that he could think about a point that jim baker had just made
baker writes in his memoirs that one of his darkest moments when he felt that these negotiations were never going to succeed he writes that he had that all of you had been meeting with president assad
he felt that he had gotten he was clear that he had gotten an agreement on some specific point with assad
he went back to the israelis
they signed off on it
then when he went back to assad he backtracked and said you know what
i'm sorry
that's not what i'm agreeing to and baker says he baker flipped
and he describes the scene do you remember it where he and assad were basically accusing each other of being liars
there were a number of times in these negotiations after all they were many trips involved over many months where not only to be honest with you president assad but other heads of states in the region also changed their minds after secretary baker thought he had had an agreement
so there were a number of times when baker had reached his limit and his level of frustration
there are moments when he uses walking out of a meeting or closing his notebook to his advantage
can you give me an example
i don't remember the specific piece of substance
after all we went over sentence over sentence over sentence
but i do remember instances in a number of at least three countries in that region where yes he got up closed his notebook and said gentlemen basically that's it
we have nothing else to discuss and walked out
so this was a case of using sort of feigning anger in order to try to get results
it's making a point and it did get results and it's knowing timing knowing when you're not going to sit there and listen to president assad tell you the history of his country again knowing when you are going to
so meanwhile what is happening to all of you the negotiators on the american side
you're shuttling back and forth literally you know one day in one country another day in another country having these ten hour what did you call them bladder sessions
bladder diplomacy in syria
o. k. bladder diplomacy where you couldn't go to the bathroom for ten hours
you're going back to your hotel at night
how did you try to keep up your energy level keep up your spirits
did you have any tricks for that
not really
you're totally running on adrenaline
you're totally immersed in what you're doing
i can say that i had less sleep in my job at the state department than i had the entire time i was in high school and college
but you really don't think about it
you're so focused and you are so you so believe in what you're doing for the region for the world for peace and so you give up a lot
you give up sleep
you give up healthy eating habits
you give up any semblance of exercise
but you are just totally wrapped up in what you are doing and trying to be in any way that you can depending on your job responsibilities supportive of the secretary of state's mission
when you would come back at night you would come back to the sheraton as you say in damascus could you talk freely among yourselves or did you suspect that the hotel suites were bugged
of course not
of course you assume that
you would be a fool if you traveled in any country overseas and not assume that to be honest with you
and so any private conversations that you want to have you just go outside
oh you assume that if you're outside and talk in low tones that you won't be overheard
it's much safer
you can also write on paper
i mean there are things you can do
you can pass a classified cable across a table and highlight what you should read or should not read
many times of course assuming the room is bugged you talk freely and you talk outloud hoping that you are passing messages
so warren christopher has now helped negotiate a ceasefire in this most recent round of fighting
presumably there will be other crises in the middle east in the future
unfortunately
can you give us some tips for those who might participate in those future negotiations those future shuttle diplomacies
what are a couple of principles that they should keep in mind if they're as they're shuttling back from capitol to capitol
i think first and foremost that the united states cannot impose peace and the united states cannot want peace in that region more than the parties themselves
we don't have magic wands over the arabs or the israelis
margaret tutwiler former spokesperson for the u. s. state department currently president of the public relations firm direct impact communications here in washington d. c.
so how many miles did you log
in our tenure at state we kept an international log mileage the pilot did and we did over seven hundred twenty thousand miles
did you have any free trips out of that
unfortunately no
we were on military aircraft the entire time
drat
yeah
thanks
thank you
even for americans saturated with crime stories the news from california this week was hard to hear
now a six year old boy has been charged with attempted murder for allegedly beating a one month old baby nearly to death
it happened in richmond an industrial city ten miles from san francisco
the six year old is in custody for psychiatric evaluation and authorities aren't releasing his name because of his age
but they say he is probably the youngest person ever in california if not the nation to be charged with a felony
n. p. r.'s richard gonzales reports
outside the modest apartment house of the family of ignacio bermudez senior neighbors gathered for a sunset prayer vigil last night in a neighborhood whose name the iron triangle connotes the hardships of this depressed area
tragedy almost beyond belief struck monday night
three young boys one six years old and the two others eight year old twins entered the bedroom of this home while the adults were away grocery shopping
police say the six year old the ringleader knocked down month old ignacio bermudez from his bassinet and then proceeded to punch kick and beat the baby with a stick
his stepsister who was in another room and says she didn't hear the commotion discovered the baby shortly after the attack
little ignacio bermudez junior remains in critical condition
doctors say he may suffer permanent brain damage
police says the boy's initial motive in entering the house was to steal a big wheel tricycle
at a news conference the baby's father ignacio bermudez senior speaking through a translator said he bears no ill will against the six year old who almost killed his month old son
i'll tell you what i think about bringing legal charges against the child
i think first a doctor should see this child a psychologist and see if he is clear about what he did if he actually had the capacity to plan a crime
perhaps he didn't really
maybe he's not well
but the local prosecutor is less forgiving
contra costa country deputy district attorney harold jewett charged the six year old with attempted murder
his two accomplices face a single count of burglary and will be released to their parents
at a custody hearing yesterday jewett said there is evidence the six year old boy told a witness he planned the crime
as i said in court this morning he made a statement before the commission of the offense that he didn't like the way the folks who were living in that house were looking at him and he wanted to kill the baby
that's what he said
the prosecutor's revelation came after days of speculation over the possible motive for the attack and it is important because under california law the state has to show criminal intent to kill when it charges attempted murder
deputy d. a. jewett said the issue isn't whether a six year old should be prosecuted but whether this six year old should be held responsible for his actions
if we can show that that six year old knew the difference between right and wrong when he beat this infant within an inch of its life i think there is a right and a duty to assign social responsibility for it
this case may break new ground in juvenile justice as legal and psychiatric experts as well as society at large debate the issue of criminal intent in very young suspects and some legal experts say the burden of proof in determining a juvenile's intent will be tough for the prosecution
linda fullerton is the attorney representing the twin boys involved in the incident
it's a sad comment on society when we deal with the problem of children by of this age by criminal prosecution
obviously particularly with if the six year old is involved with what they say he's involved with there's need for real help for that young young child but i'm not particularly sure that for such babies that this is the approach that society should be taking
during yesterday's custody hearing the six year old occasionally squirmed with curiosity in his oversized chair his feet not even reaching the floor
when asked whether he understood the charges against him he replied simply yeah at the conclusion of the hearing the young boy hugged his grandparents and ignored his mother
if the juvenile judge finds the allegations to be true the boy faces a possible ten years as a ward of the state and will be placed in some rehabilitative or mental institution
i'm richard gonzales in richmond california
this past week the senate voted unanimously to require health insurance companies to cover mental disabilities just as they cover physical disabilities
and if the house of representatives agrees which is a big if it could bring big changes in health care because at the moment most insurance plans provide far less coverage for treating emotional problems than physical ones
this disparity reflects the fact that many americans still have a kind of prejudice against people who seek emotional counseling or maybe discomfort is a better work
for instance under a law which went into effect in nineteen ninety two the americans with disabilities act companies are not supposed to discriminate against people in wheelchairs or people with emotional disabilities as long as they can perform their jobs
but attorney shelly jackson of the bazelon center for mental health law here in washington says many companies are violating that provision
she says twelve percent of the people who go to the federal equal employment opportunity commission to file complaints against employees under the disabilities act say they are being victimized for psychiatric reasons
the e. e. o. c. has taken the case of a woman who had severe depression
the woman worked for a human service agency
she received i believed two or three promotions
she received very good job evaluations
she was hospitalized
with depression
she was hospitalized after a suicide attempt
after her hospitalization ended she wanted to return to work
she returned to work in part because the professionals who had treated her said that they thought that she was perfectly capable of returning to work and doing her job
but her employer had a meeting and they decided that she wasn't capable of doing her job that she might be a danger to the other people in the workplace or to the people that the organization served and they fired her
so that's an example of a case that's currently being litigated
mm
what's another example perhaps with a different twist
a woman works in this case for an insurance company
she works there for twenty five years
and this is a real case you're telling me about
this is a real case
she pays out of her own pocket premiums for a long term disability insurance policy
the woman becomes disabled due to her depression and she wants to collect on her policy
it is revealed to her then that although if she were disabled because of a physical impairment that the policy would pay her until she reached the age of sixty five
because her disability is a mental one the policy will only pay her benefits for two years
that's another example
on the other hand and i don't want to sound like i'm old fashioned and ignorant but i'm trying to put myself you know genuinely in the place of an employer for instance
and let's say i have all sorts of applicants for a particular job and i have somebody who's doing a pretty good job but they do from time to time they get depressed
they have to take off
they are seeing a therapist that's good
but you know it does interfere from time to time with that person's work
is it totally wrong of me to think you know i feel bad for this person
i wish them all the best in the world but i would rather have an employee who is just as qualified who doesn't take off whether it's for chronic backaches or chronic anxiety or depression
well it's understandable that an employer would always be thinking about how can i get my work done but i think that in today's society whether it is someone with depression or someone with a backache there are going to be employees who have impairments whether mental or physical that are going to cause them difficulty at some point in their lives but it doesn't mean that those people can't be productive employees
and i think what the americans with disabilities act says is that an employer isn't obligated to radically change their workplace but what they are obligated to do is to try to deal with individuals on a case by case basis not to make decisions on the basis of the fact that the person has a label or based on a stereotype but to try to work things out with the employee so that both the employer and the employee benefit
so supposing now that i am an employee and i go to a therapist regularly to deal with some emotional problem and it is helping me keep that problem in check and i'm functioning very well at the workplace everybody's happy with my work et cetera et cetera et cetera and then the insurance company cuts me off
or supposing my employer says you know what
i don't want you here anymore because you're making us nervous with all this stuff with the psychiatrist what do you suggest i do
should i come to you or go to somebody and file a legal case
is that my best way of solving this problem
well you can
the reason that i hesitate is i know from talking to people with mental disabilities that litigation is always very stressful and can be particularly stressful for someone with a mental disability
because there's still a stigma in our society attached to this disability frequently people would just as soon prefer that their diagnosis their history of treatment their psychological problems the type of assistance that they've had they would prefer that that doesn't hit the newspapers
they would prefer that that doesn't hit the court papers
and so i think that is one reason why people generally would prefer not only to go to court if they absolutely have to
and that's one reason why i would encourage anyone to at least as a first step see if they can work things out with their employer
shelly jackson is staff attorney at the bazelon center for mental health law here in washington d. c. thanks very much
thank you
back in the early nineteen sixties pianist leon fleisher was already becoming a legend
he was in his early thirties playing with all the great orchestras
critics were saying he was destined to be one of the greatest pianists of the century
here's fleisher with the cleveland orchestra in nineteen sixty one
then in nineteen sixty five fleisher's right arm stopped working
it virtually went dead and his glorious career as a concert pianist died with it
but over the past thirty years leon fleisher has gradually often painfully reassembled the broken pieces and he has transformed himself into a musical legend in other ways
he runs the famed tanglewood music center he co directs a respected chamber music group he gives master classes at the peabody conservatory and he's helped inspire a whole new body of piano music performed only with the left hand which in fleisher's case never stopped working
over the past couple of decades a lot of pianists have suffered the same injury and in general researchers think it's the same kind of repetitive motion injury that's plaguing supermarket checkout clerks and computer typists and others who repeat the same quick hand movements over and over again
but now fleisher is going through a new transformation
after decades of physical therapies including acupuncture and massage and even an operation he's finally beginning to play with both hands again
we joined him the other day at his teaching studio in baltimore maryland two beat up old steinway baby grands on an even more beat up persian rug so faded in places you can't make out the pattern
fleisher sat on a piano bench looking serene with his heavy black glasses and salt and pepper beard
he looks much much younger than his sixty seven years
he said his right arm still doesn't work the way it used to but emotionally he's cured
it took him a long time fleisher says
there used to be days when he came close to committing suicide but then he gradually learned a grand lesson about life
the important thing i think to know is that even in these moments of greatest despair and this sounds like pollyanna it is possible merely by how can i say changing your mind set or getting outside yourself realizing that there is a world out there
the world is neither for you nor against you
if you want to live a satisfying even happy and productive life it depends on how you set your mind how you the point of view that you take
it sounds like you're saying then that basically everybody at some point in their lives whether when they're in their thirties as you were right or whether they're in their fifties realize
or in their teens
realize that life is not going to turn out exactly the way they hoped it would
yeah yeah
but you have to learn to deal with it and in learning to deal with it you might even be lucky enough to find the way to make it turn out the way you want it to turn out
it might not be the original idea that you had but it might even open your eyes expand your horizons give you larger peripheral vision instead of usually the blindered vision with which we go through life
and you'll find other ways of having even greater satisfaction which is really what happened to me
even greater satisfaction
oh yeah oh yeah
in retrospect now you think
in retrospect i think i think that there are several areas in which it really changed my life
since i could no longer demonstrate for my students i had to become very specific in my thoughts and ideas to be able to describe things which are essentially very ephemeral and ethereal in music to be able to describe them in words
so it made me a much better teacher which is a source of great satisfaction to me
i began conducting and i discovered the joys really of music shared as opposed to music solitary which is what most pianists do
you know you sit in your studio and you practice and you go out and you give a recital
the idea of sharing that is necessary when you conduct an orchestra you have to convince one hundred very competent professional musicians of your vision of the piece to make them willing to go along to realize that vision to make it manifest
and if you can really convince them the results can be ecstasy
and you're not rationalizing
no no absolutely not
could let's talk a little bit about a few of the ways in which you opened up new avenues new definitions of yourself
one way of course is that you started playing and performing with the left hand performing with some of the world's great orchestras and i would love it if you would now maybe do a left hand piece
o. k.
i don't even have to identify it i don't think but it is an arrangement for left hand by earl wile
now of course i've heard about your playing left hand only but it's this is the first time i've actually heard it and it's even if i didn't know you were playing with only your left hand i would think it's a two handed piece
well it's a very good arrangement
it's also incredible to watch you physically playing with only the left hand
at some point you are gripping literally you're gripping onto the right end of the piano with your right arm it's like to prevent yourself from flying off as you're whizzing around with the left hand
exactly
the center of gravity for left hand playing is quite different than it is for two hand playing
it turns out to be the right buttock is the center of gravity for left hand playing because you go way down to the bottom of the piano but then you go across your body way up to the top of the piano and you need that
i hang on so i won't fall off
but now you must need right buttock therapy
well to be honest with you yes
we won't go into that one during this show
but o. k. another way in which you redefined yourself as you've already mentioned was as is as a teacher
and i'm wondering how can you compare the satisfaction or can you of teaching young musicians with the satisfaction that you used to get and still now get performing by yourself on a stage and having people leap to their feet and applaud for you
well the sound of one hand clapping
i was unspeakably fortunate to work with one of the great great figures of the twentieth century in music
his name was arthur schnabel and he along with toscanini in another sense redefined performance music for the twentieth century
he was an inspired and inspiring and dedicated teacher
and mentor he was your mentor
and i think those were such mind blowing soul shattering experiences working with him that i come by my love of teaching in a very kind of normal natural way
at least for myself i'm able to find possible answers to eternal questions in music and i have such gifted people they share these questions with me
and when i'm able to suggest possible answers possible solutions to see that light come into their eyes and just see this you know to be a part of what is known today as the a ha experience is extremely satisfying
so was that perhaps the greatest gift your teacher schnabel gave you that you're now trying to give to your students the gift of opening them to a whole new world that they didn't dream existed
absolutely absolutely
and as we all know now as a result of your physical therapies and emotional therapies and everything else you are now starting to perform in public with both hands and it would be wonderful if you would make music now at the piano with the left and right hand
one thing i want to emphasize is that i'm still in a process you know
i'm still recovering in fact i have no guarantee of how far it will go
however far it goes it will go
it's a grand adventure
that's all i can say
are you warning us that if you make a mistake we shouldn't be shocked
that's right
i was known in all the commercial disks that i made i made sure because the technology was so perfect that they could make perfect disks and that's a terrible thing especially for young people to be confronted with it gives them the totally wrong emphasis so i made sure that at least one good clinker was on every disk that i made
so i will continue that grand tradition
and it's the jesu joy of man's desire by bach two hundred fifty years ago arranged by myra hess
so now that you're starting to play with your right hand where are you with all of this
are you prepared emotionally for hitting a wall finding that you can't be the great concert pianist that you used to be
i think i'm prepared for pretty much whatever there is
i will take it as far as it goes
my life is extraordinarily gratifying and satisfying as it is
as i said before it's an adventure and the excitement and the gratification is in the adventure
you achieve something and the satisfaction goes flat very quickly very quickly and then you're on to the need for the next achievement and how you get to that achievement
that's where all the fun is that's where all the excitement is
pianist leon fleisher performs tomorrow left handed only at new york s. carnegie hall
incidentally after our interview fleisher excused himself said he had to rush to a meeting and as we were packing up our equipment one of fleisher's students walked in and started practicing for her lesson
by the way i asked her what's fleisher like as a teacher
the best she said he has changed my life
the long murder trial of fictional celebrity neal avedon ended this week and the a. b. c. television series in which it played out murder one may be over as well
a. b. c. has not yet announced whether it will renew murder one for a second season
t. v. audiences according to the nielsen ratings were not so enthusiastic about the new steven bochco drama nor were they committed to the more than twenty hours of viewing time it took the series to reach a verdict
we the jury in the above entitled action the people versus neal avedon in the charge of murder in the first degree for the premeditated and deliberate taking of another human life during the commission of a felony rape find the defendant neal avedon guilty
weekend edition entertainment critic elvis mitchell joins us now
good morning elvis
howdy neal
the distinguishing mark it seemed to me of this series was its attention to procedure
we followed every twist and turn of one murder case for an entire season and there were some great bochco touches and some marvelous acting performances but i wonder if you think the concept of this series one murder so to speak buried murder one
well if you would have asked me that question before the o. j. simpson trial i would have said no but you know what invention that a writer could come up with could possibly be as interesting as rosa lopez for example or anything else in that trial
so i guess that was part of the problem with murder one but i guess what i thought was problematic about this show too is just that it was sort of not as interesting as l. a. law
what this show had was a lead character in ted hoffman played by daniel benzali who was so irreproachable who was so who stood so much above the rest of the cast that the show sort of waxed and waned based on what he had to offer and the great thing about the other bochco shows is that there is a cast of characters who have almost as much to offer as the leads and this seemed more as a kind of standard t. v. show in which there's a star and a bunch of supporting characters
i did start out with this series and more or less i hung in there but at times i thought it was just me and mrs. bochco watching and she was in it
no flies on you pal
in fact if it kept going you might have been a part of the cast too
i think if you remember the early episodes they tried to do two things it was kind of a bifurcated approach
they would pay attention to the trial but then there'd be some other case that they were trying to play out and they again played it like second rate l. a. law episodes in which we'd seen this stuff done before and better and more interestingly so why do we care
so that was sort of dispensed with about halfway into the season and after the midway point every episode of this show concentrated solely on the trial and it just became silly after a while this show that was as you mentioned so intent on setting up a realistic kind of examination procedure in fact being a procedural drama to being almost like a standard cop show
well steven bochco now he has given us such wonderful television as hill street blues which you mentioned and l. a. law
he's also delivered up a couple of stinkers
cop rock sticks in the mind somewhere there
where does he go from here
where does he after murder one
i think he wants to continue with murder one
according to friday's l. a. times the two shows this week specifically the tuesday night show which ran in the n. y. p. d. blue spot did very well in the ratings and so a. b. c. has now said that the show is definitely a candidate for renewal and if the show continues next season they will concentrate on two murder trials at once rather than one
so i think he would love to see murder one continue
he's been out stumping for it like you know bob dole at this point
so murder two
yeah
i think more like take two murder one
he's hoping we'll all give it more of a chance
thanks elvis
thanks neal
weekend edition entertainment critic elvis mitchell speaking with us from our bureau in los angeles
you're listening to weekend edition
in new york last night keith warnock won the honor of being named the first poet laureate of his profession
mr. warnock is a lecturer on accounting at university college galway in ireland and his one page free verse poem beat out about three hundred submissions by fellow numbers crunchers
the contest was sponsored by the critical perspectives journal to prove that the guardians of the bottom line can push well past the confines of numbers columns
keith warnock joins us now on the line from new york
welcome
thank you
have you written poetry before
i wrote a couple of poems when i was at school but it's only in the last few months since this competition was announced that i've taken to it more seriously
so you've learned what a taxing profession it is
i have indeed yes
what attracted you to accounting and is what attracted you to poetry necessarily the opposite that we would think of from accounting
i think what attracted me to accounting was probably the very simple fact that i followed my father into the profession
he was an accountant in ireland and practiced as a public accountant for a number of years decided then to switch to the academic side of accounting and probably the switch reflects some of the thinking that has led me to turn my hand to poetry recently
so your left brain can tote figures while your right brain is on a flight of fancy
yes yes
perhaps accountants have to concentrate on whatever the appropriate side of their brain is more than other people during their working lives but i think that other dimension can be there as well
i wonder would you if you don't mind read an excerpt from your prize winning poem
i will certainly do that
it describes the somewhat surprising idea of accountants dealing with poetry at all and it envisages professional accountants making their way to an exposition about accounting poetry not at all sure what they were trying there
the flagstones of fifth avenue sweep southward past the metropolitan museum of art bearing on their broad backs the confident heels of six of the nation's accountants ernst young deloitte and touche price waterhouse
and later on the accountants are contemplating going in to see what this exposition on poetry is about
they hesitate inside the door contemplating brushing the last vestiges of professionalism from their shoulders straightening the ties of pure commerce and re emerging in the street
instead they check their topcoats and their lawsuits in the lobby all surface cynicism and inquisitiveness and descend hoping perhaps deep in their mortgaged souls to find others below who are re enchanting the world
that's quite good
thank you
keith warnock the international poet laureate of accountants
he spoke with us from new york
i'm neal conan
coming up on weekend edition the link between the origins of western civilization and the american family farm but first the cease fire in liberia now in its ninth day is shaky and liberia's political crisis is being compounded by a medical one a recent outbreak of cholera which the world health organization fears could endanger large numbers of people living in the capital monrovia
the evacuation of americans from liberia is nearly complete and u. s. officials are trying now to bring an end to liberia's civil war
assistant secretary of state for african affairs george moos is in ghana today participating with west african officials in mediation efforts but by and large the united states has kept a relatively low profile in liberia
n. p. r.'s mike shuster explains
the fighting in monrovia erupted on april sixth and within days the u. s. began an evacuation with planes and helicopters and eventually a small naval task force off the west african coast bearing a complement of two thousand marines
but only this week did the clinton administration focus serious attention on how to stop the fighting
yesterday state department spokesman glen davies warned all the warlords of liberia against the temptation to use their teenage armies to seize control of the country
it's important that they give up all the faction leaders any designs on taking over monrovia or gaining military sway over liberia
davies hinted that if the warlords do not stop the fighting it could mean the end of u. s. aid for liberia
that's the message that an american delegation has been telling the warlords this week
the u. s. thrust has been to back a west african peacekeeping force known by its acronym ecomog to regain control
ecomog was supposed to have twelve thousand troops in monrovia but because of financial constraints that force has shrunk to six thousand clearly not enough to challenge the estimated sixty thousand fighters of the various factions who now roam monrovia's streets and the countryside
this week the u. s. pledged an additional thirty million dollars for the peacekeeping force
assistant secretary of state george moos was in geneva yesterday trying to muster international support for a liberia peace mission
the first part of that clearly is to re establish some security in monrovia
that's the most urgent requirement both in terms of diffusing the situation in monrovia but also permitting humanitarian relief agencies who were forced to leave recently to return so that they can deal with the needs of the people in monrovia
more than a million people live in monrovia which until this month had been largely spared the bloodshed of liberia's six year old civil war
now relief agencies have been forced out and the population is at risk of hunger and disease
some experts argue that the u. s. has been far too slow to act in liberia which has had a special relationship with this country since it was founded in one thousand eight hundred forty seven by freed american slaves
chester crocker a former assistant secretary of state for africa is one of the critics
we have not been asserting our historical role or carrying out our traditional responsibility in liberia for about six years and i go right back to nineteen ninety on this when there was an opportunity for us to try and stop something but we didn't
we decided that it we let it happen
liberia's civil war erupted that year but the u. s. was focused on other international crises iraq's invasion of kuwait the collapse of the soviet union and the reunification of germany
now u. s. diplomacy is stretched thing as well in bosnia the middle east russia and the far east but there are bigger stakes in liberia where libya's leader muammar qaddafi has been financing one of the factions in order to undermine u. s. influence
chester crocker says the clinton administration is not taking the liberia crisis seriously enough
is this going to be a sort of a humanitarian peep show or are we going to have a serious foreign policy
i see a series of steps and probes and consultations that need to be made but i can see our military playing a transitional role even if it's largely symbolic
the liberians take us very seriously
they take us as friends
we have a one hundred fifty year history there
their flag almost looks like ours
i mean this is a country which identifies very much with the u. s.
crocker is suggesting the use of american force to hand off to the west african peacekeepers but the administration cringes when it hears even the faintest proposal that it should use u. s. troops
assistant secretary moos says there is no consideration whatsoever of using the marines now offshore to intervene in any way other than to protect or evacuate the thirty americans that remain in liberia
that is the exclusive mission of our forces there
they have no instruction and no mission and no intention of becoming involved in the liberian conflict
sam woods says that the u. s. must do more
woods is one of liberia's most prominent human rights activists and was evacuated after spending two weeks in hiding
we have been abandoned by the united states and it has also become clearer and clearer that probably the united states does not have a vital interest to protect in liberia anymore and therefore there is no need to provide long term support for whatever occurs in liberia
woods believes that stability will not return to liberia until the warlords and their boy soldiers are completely disarmed and he says only an outside force much stronger than the president west african one is capable of doing that
this is mike shuster in new york
victor davis hanson traces the origins of western civilization to the small plots where greek farmers lived in ancient times and worked the land
from those beginnings he argues stem the idea of the city state the ideal of the egalitarian society and concepts like constitutional government private land ownership free enterprise and citizen controlled militias
now victor davis hanson sees our cultural legacy threatened by the rapid displacement of the american family farmer the last generation in a long line that stretches back to ancient greece
as it happens mr. hanson is both a classical scholar and a family farmer
his most recent book is fields without dreams defending the agrarian idea and he joins us now from his farm in california's san joaquin valley
welcome
thank you for asking me to be on your show
tell me what can you see there from the porch of your farm
well i'm looking due east and we're about thirty miles from the sierra and they're covered with clouds
it's a beautiful day and right in my immediate vision we have about five acres of plums on that side of the ranch and we have about twenty acres of vineyard and i'm sitting on the deck of my great great grandmother's house so nothing seems to change around here
but all around the farm itself everything seems to be changing from wal mart's about a mile and a half down the road now and there's housing developments but we're trying to just preserve i guess in a reactionary sense what our life has been like for the last six generations
well the pace of change everywhere in the past hundred years or so has been tremendous and you know a lot of once revered professions are gone
what makes family farmers different from linotype operators or candle makers
i think it has to get back to two points and one is that they're absolutely independent
they get up and they determine their work regimen they're responsible for their own degree of success and failure and then they have the natural element
they do all they can but ultimately they realize that they're entirely dependent on what nature says and that lends a philosophical sense to their struggle i think
you write at one point talking about that philosophy that farmers are the only people who see man as a feral animal
yes
what do you mean by that
well i think what the farmer sees every minute that he's on the ranch that he has wild root stock and then he has to graft and cultivate to get a domesticated species
he has animals that he works with but he also has animals that try to destroy what he has and that ranges from the nimitoad that's microscopic to the rodent to man himself which is an animal and in his view of the world it's quite opposite of the therapeutic or the social science approach that man in fact is a pretty nice guy and if you just take away culture and convention he would be in a utopian natural paradise
the farmer would no more believe that than he would to cut down his tree and let the wild root grow
your book is a sometimes bitter chronicle of what's happened on your family's farm and i have to say though that the litany of unending back breaking labor of frustration and despair don't seem to recommend family farming
well i look at my family sometimes and how we've aged and the people who are not with us anymore and the current financial status and we all ask ourselves why would anyone want to do it and i don't mean by that to suggest that we're at all tragic figures or that we need sympathy it's just that it requires a price that you pay and i think the recompense or the dividend is that you are autonomous and you're independent and you look at the world in a very very different way than a lot of people do
you describe what happened to your family and to other raisin farmers there in the san joaquin valley beginning in nineteen eighty three
it was a collapse really
what has that cost you
well the price of raisins on the entire crop you get all during the late nineteen seventies and up till nineteen eighty two was about ranged between one thousand two hundred dollars and one thousand four hundred dollars a ton
in nineteen eighty three the price collapsed to four hundred sixty dollars is what we got and in the last thirteen years it's never gone above eight hundred fifty dollars while our expenses sometimes doubled
and then i was looking the other day in some cases they tripled
but can the cost be reckoned only money
no i don't think so
i know that somebody may make it think it's overdramatic but my mother was very stressed out
she worked in town to put her capital back into the ranch and my father has had ill health
a lot of our neighbors to be frank some of them have one of them my close friend committed suicide
my well they're all chain smokers and they're all very bitter in a psychological and emotional sense so there was a toll besides money
and then right now as i'm looking at this vineyard this is the first year second year in one hundred eighteen years that some of it's rented out because we don't have the capital any longer to farm it
do you think you're going to have to sell it
well you know that's one of the great paradoxes in farming now
it's really tragic in a sense because you can keep the land if you don't farm it
if you just keep it and rent it out to either a large conglomeration or to a bank then you don't have that same degree of risk
the danger starts is when you go out in the vineyard and get on the tractor and you're responsible and that's where we sometimes have disagreements because the true farmer must farm and yet sometimes that's not the best thing to do if you're going to keep the land
family farms in greece too gave way eventually absorbed in bigger farms an example in which you find a warning and let me read a paragraph from the conclusion of your book
once that greek system of autonomous city states based on agrarian notions of small farming constitutional government and infantry militias vanished classical greek culture was lost
literature became stylized and repetitive taxation and military expenditures soared authoritarianism replaced popular government
without the agrarian infrastructure there was no middle to frame support and mend an egalitarian society
all that is historical fact you write not a romance not an agrarian yarn
do you see any way out
i don't see any way out in the sense that reasonable people will get together and dictate legislation
i don't though as a historian doubt for a minute that this is cyclical and that there will be further assaults on the middle class
i think that there will be further assaults on the agrarian idea but eventually we know the limitations of a complete corporate mentality where we have a rich and a poor and nobody in between
it's not sustainable and it gives us efficiency and it gives us material rewards but it leads us wanting in a spiritual sense and so we always go back to this other more difficult challenging paradigm and i think we will do that but it won't be necessarily through efforts of our own
you book i described it before as often bitter and i don't think that's an exaggeration
you don't have much use for some of the people in town you don't have much use it seems to me for working in town a lot
there are some descriptions of your fellow farmers which are not very flattering either
do you think that maybe on reflection your book might have been colored by the trauma the experience say that you've had in the past several years
i think so
i think that people even in my family have said that you've made us look too bitter there was good there too and i didn't mean to do that necessarily
what i thought i would do for at least once in my life i thought i'm going to sit down and i'm going to write what i see and what i heard and what i went through and i'm really not going to worry anymore whether it's going to bother people or whether people are going to say it's a generalization
that has been a criticism that it's bleak and that all of us my family our fellow farmers are better people and more noble than i tried to describe and that hurts me in some ways because my intent was really to show that the family farmer is like no one else in the world but to do that i thought i had to be honest otherwise it would be romantic i thought or even maybe naive
i wonder how has your experience as a farmer affected your career as a classicist
well you know that's a in the superficial sense they've been the worst thing in the world because i've always had a problem coming back from school and pruning or working people or associating with people who thought that well you're not quite a farmer because you put your head in those silly books in the academic world people have often i think thought i was less of a serious intellectual
and the more important point though i think it's been absolutely beneficial and that is that when you farm and you're on a tractor for twelve hours a day or you're pruning in the winter for day after day you read texts by people who were who had gone through that as well hesiad virgil romanticized it
desidities herodotus all these people in greece were men of action in the sense that they saw war and they worked in the physical world
then the final thing i'll say is one of irony is it does seem that classics as a formal academic discipline is dying as is family farming
it's hard to convince people to take latin and greek and to devote their attention to the ancient world just as it is to keep a family farm going
you think you've really got the career perfecta there
i don't know but i wouldn't advise my children and i don't not advise them either to farm or become a classicist because it's not exactly a growth industry
i was interested the house from which you're speaking
yes
was your grandfather's house initially right
actually it was his grandmother's
she came out in one thousand eight hundred seventy eight from missouri so there's been six of us in a row which is both good and bad you know because you have an allegiance to the house that you keep trying to fix it and do everything and you wonder if you're doing it right and what would they say about you
well it's interesting you write about the improvements that the various generations have put it and somebody built an extension and somebody else put in a second floor
what did you put in
for some reason and maybe this is why you i hope this bitterness is not too extreme but i decided that i wanted to build a wall all around the house and i didn't want to just make any type of wall so i built it out of stone block and cement and rebar and it's about five hundred fifty we're looking at it right now about five hundred fifty feet in its circumference and it surrounds the entire house and yard
ostensibly i said i wanted to keep the dust from the tractors out of the kitchen but i think maybe i did it also because i have a feeling that someday all this stuff is going to be houses and at least this house won't be torn down because it'll be very difficult to take down this wall
it's built in a way that is a little ridiculous
it's a greek wall isn't it
yeah it is
it does show some signs of knowledge of ancient fortifications and the greeks didn't have rebar like we did or their walls might have been a little bit more effective but it's designed like a greek wall and it's to protect i guess the house
i don't think there's any spartans out there in the vineyard but it would protect the house if there were
thank you very much
i appreciate it
thank you for asking me to be on your show
victor davis hanson is a professor of greek at california state university in fresno
his most recent book is fields without dreams published by simon and schuster
professor hanson spoke with us from his family's farm in the san joaquin valley of california
and this is n. p. r.'s weekend edition i'm neal conan
in nineteen ninety one the library of congress and the book of the month club asked people to name the books that had had the greatest impact on their lives
the number one book was the bible
number two was a first novel published in nineteen sixty written by a woman from alabama
it was a story told from a young girl's perspective about growing up in a racially segregated small town in the nineteen thirties
the novel went on to win the pulitzer prize was made into an academy award winning movie and to this date has sold more than thirty million copies
to kill a mockingbird was written by harper lee
tomorrow the reclusive author celebrates her seventieth birthday and this month marks the thirty fifth anniversary of harper lee's pulitzer prize for literature
weekend edition producer peter breslow traveled to monroeville alabama the author's hometown and the model for the fictional macum of the novel
decades after its publication to kill a mockingbird is still one of the most often taught books in america's schools and the lessons of its hero atticus finch still ring true
if you can learn a simple trick he tells his young daughter you'll get along a lot better with all kinds of folks
you never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view until you climb into his skin and walk around in it
though the novel addresses prejudice justice fear and compassion the story at its simplest is about an unforgettable family
atticus a small town widowed lawyer who is fair and open minded and his two children a kind sensible boy named jem and his younger sister fiercely bright hot tempered jean louise better known as scout the novel's narrator
macum was an old town but it was a tired old town when i first knew it
in rainy weather the streets turned to red slop
grass grew on the sidewalks
the courthouse sagged in the square
somehow it was hotter then
a black dog suffered on a summer's day
bony mules hitched to hoover carts flicked flies in the sweltering shade of the live oaks on the square
men's stiff collars wilted by nine o'clock in the morning
people moved slowly then
they ambled across the square shuffled in and out of the stores around it took their time about everything
a day was twenty four hours long but seemed longer
there was no hurry for there was nowhere to go nothing to buy and no money to buy it with
nothing to see outside the boundaries of macum county
beneath to kill a mockingbird's tranquil tone and nostalgic view of childhood lies a less innocent reality one that emerges full force when atticus is asked to defend a black man tom robinson who's been unjustly accused of raping a white woman
before long the family must confront the cruelty and ignorance of southern alabama in the nineteen thirties
this century old brick courthouse with its octagonal clock tower now a museum is a landmark and anchor for monroeville's grassy town square
it was the upstairs courtroom here that harper lee used as a model for the one in the book the courtroom where atticus pleads for tom robinson's acquittal
later movie set designers came to study the place so they could duplicate it on a hollywood lot
and the balconies were called the colored balconies where african americans sat during trials and then if it was an overflow or crowded the white folks would go up into the balconies too
it's only in the last five years that city fathers have really started paying attention to monroeville's best tourist attraction renovating the courthouse and hiring kathy mccoy as the first full time museum director
the town will soon become even more dependent on tourist dollars
although forestry remains a major industry here vanity fair the local clothing mill is pulling out some of its operation eliminating over a thousand jobs
but tourism is paying off
according to kathy mccoy every year a special breed flocks here thousands of mockingbird groupies
they come from all over
they come from other countries
we have writers here a lot lawyers
this is a big mecca for lawyers
and of course as soon as that book hit this town was like under the microscope and it still is today
poor old monroe county they can't do anything without it going national
you know
i mean it just you just can't even walk out your door
even though harper lee was describing the racism of nineteen thirties alabama she wrote the book during the tumultuous nineteen fifties a time of lynchings and bombings and boycotts
she was the daughter of francis finch that's where atticus got his last name and lawyer a. c. lee
the a was for amasa not atticus
and he was a title attorney not a criminal one like the fictional character
nell harper lee folks called her nell attended huntington college in montgomery and then the university of alabama in tuscaloosa where she studied law
she left for new york in nineteen fifty and supported herself as an airline reservation clerk
one christmas some friends presented her with an extraordinary gift financial support for a year so she could write
the novel she completed was initially rejected by publishers but once it did make it to the bookstores to kill a mockingbird sold rapidly and was celebrated as a masterpiece
totally ingenious tough melodramatic acute and funny according to the new yorker
harper lee grew up on what was once the main residential street in monroeville
today it is transformed from a quaint tree lined road to a hodge podge of fast food restaurants chain motels and a curious number of auto parts stores
where the lee house once stood is now mel's dairy dream
a. d. blass remembers a time when life here was quieter and he vividly recalls his grade school classmate from those days nell harper lee
tomboy
liked to wear blue jeans back when they weren't popular you know for girls but nice girl
we met at the drugstore a few times and would talk after school
and was the character scout did that reflect her you think in your mind's eye
probably so yeah
she was very smart and she read a lot where most of us did not read much
she read all the time and she would have been a person like the character that was scout
catty corner to where the lee house used to stand is an empty lot and gas station which were once the site of a house that plays a central role in the novel when scout and jem become obsessed by its mysterious occupant boo radley
inside the house lived a malevolent phantom
people said he existed but jem and i had never seen him
people said he went out at night when the moon was down and peeked in windows
when people's azaleas froze in a cold snap it was because he had breathed on them
any stealthy small crimes committed in macum were his work
jem gave a reasonable description of boo
boo was about six and a half feet tall judging from his tracks
he dined on raw squirrels and any cats he could catch
that's why his hands were blood stained
if you ate an animal raw you could never wash the blood off
there was a long jagged scar that ran across his face
what teeth he had were yellow and rotten
his eyes popped and he drooled most of the time
as a boy a. d. blass delivered the newspaper to the home of the real boo radley
and one day i saw the screen open and this hand came out and i was about to turn white then and he was trying to reach the paper and he couldn't get it so i went on
the next day i did the same thing and i pushed it up closer so he could reach out the door and get it and i did that for a while
finally i got brave enough i said i was thirteen then i said i should be able to hand that paper up there to the door and knock on the door and he will take it and he finally did
he got to where he would take the paper so i was sort of a hero then
and of course we called son bowler
that's what everybody called him
local lore has it that son bowler had been arrested for breaking windows in a school
his prominent father made a deal with the authorities
if they wouldn't prosecute he would make certain there'd be no more trouble from his son and there wasn't
mr. bowler kept his boy a virtual prisoner inside the house
son bowler reportedly died in his thirties of tuberculosis rarely if ever having set food outside again
few residents doubt it was bowler who became boo radley in the novel
by the way in the film version boo was played by a young robert duvall in his screen debut
harper lee though has always insisted her book is just a story
well it's not about monroeville
it's not about anybody real
it's all fiction
that's what she says
that's what she told me
i just know some similarities of things that have happened here you know that i see but and let me tell you one other thing that i have talked to several friends i've travelled all over
just about anywhere you go in the united states if you go to a small town and talk about rural towns in the forties or thirties they will say you know that book was written about our town and that's what made it such a success
it was the time it was written plus the fact that it could be put in almost any town that you wanted to take up
another character from south alabama avenue wound up in the novel a young boy who used to spend his summers with relatives in monroeville
harper lee and the boy also an aspiring writer became best friends
years later truman capote would go on to write in cold blood and breakfast at tiffany's but before that he would become the model for scout and jem's fragile looking playmate dill
early one morning as we were beginning our day's play in the back yard jem and i heard something next door in miss rachel haverford's collard patch
we went to the wire fence to see if there was a puppy
miss rachel's rat terrier was expecting
instead we found someone sitting looking at us
sitting down he wasn't much higher than the collards
we stared at him until he spoke
hey
hey yourself said jem pleasantly
i'm charles baker harris he said
i can read
so what i said
i just thought you'd like to know i can read
you got anything needs reading i can do it
how old are you asked jem
four and a half going on seven
shoot
no wonder then said jem jerking his thumb at me
scout yonder's been reading ever since she was born and she ain't even started school yet
you look right puny for going on seven
i'm little but i'm old
folks call me dill said dill struggling under the fence
when truman came in the summertime he would come into town and he usually was in a buick limousine
had a chauffeur driving him the time that i remember most vividly and he got out and we were playing ball in that vacant lot and he says fellows come on up i'll set you up and we went up and some of the boys drank milk shakes and some drank cokes and some drank lime ades but he said just charge it to mother mother was in new orleans
he took you to a soda fountain
yeah at the soda fountain at the drugstore
lee and capote shared a love of books and writing and soon after to kill a mockingbird was published decided to work together on a piece of non fiction
why that book ceased to be a collaboration is unknown but capote later acknowledge lee's assistance in researching his true crime classic in cold blood and dedicated the book to her
lee however has never written or at least published another book
that plus her refusal of almost every interview request since the nineteen sixties her reluctance to appear at signings or attend most literary events has fueled speculation and rumors of the sort that dog other reclusive writers from j. d. salinger to thomas pynchon
one often repeated tale is that lee didn't even write to kill a mockingbird
lifetime monroeville resident tommy wiggins is emphatic on the point
he didn't get the credit for it but he was the one that wrote it
you think that truman capote wrote that book
yes he did
i know he did
how do you know that
he told a bunch of us around here in monroeville
he told people that he was writing the book
yeah writing a book about killing a mockingbird
it annoys the hell out of her and i must admit it begins to annoy me a little bit too
claudia durst johnson like most people who know harper lee and her work think the notion that lee is not the author of to kill a mockingbird is absurd
chairman of the english department at the university of alabama in tuscaloosa johnson has published an analysis of the novel
she is also the only person to have interviewed harper lee in decades
the discussion wasn't recorded and few personal details about the author were revealed including the answer to the question most often asked about harper lee
why has there been no followup to mockingbird
i was in the same room with a very very respectable noted and prolific novelist not too long ago and someone in his hearing said oh yes harper lee
she's that one book one novel woman and he said but what a book he said i would give all these books i have written to have written that one book
harper lee's disdain for publicity includes fanfare in her hometown where she still spends part of the year when she's not in new york city
museum curator kathy mccoy produces a community play based on the novel every spring and she's yet to see the author in the audience
she chooses not to visit the courthouse
she's never seen the play and has no interest in it at all
and it's come through to me from the community that she's not real happy with it but i consider the book a public object and the play and harper lee is a public figure so we'll continue to do the play every year
if she distances herself from the local stage production harper lee may be even less enamored of monroeville's radley deli or the rock band called boo radley or for that matter the mexican restaurant in connecticut named tequila mockingbird or the fact that like a number of parents actors demi moore and bruce willis have named their daughter scout
but lee did enthusiastically endorse at least one spinoff from the book the nineteen sixty two movie starring gregory peck
he portrayed atticus a character modeled after lee's own father
peck who won an academy award for his performance says that lee approved of the movie script and was on hand when shooting began in hollywood
i do remember that harper was there on the opening day and that we played a scene where atticus returned from his day's work at the courthouse or in his law office and the kids ran down the street to meet him and the boy grabbed his briefcase and they strolled down the street toward their little house
i remember just during the scene walking along with the camera following us on a dolly track catching a glimpse of harper standing across the street maybe a little glistening on her cheek
maybe
i think she was happy with the way things were working
the actor says that never before or since has he felt so in tune with a character and a story as he did with atticus and to kill a mockingbird
it was a movie he says which gave him and the filmmakers a chance to make an important statement about racial bigotry and intolerance through a remarkably natural story one with which more than thirty years later he's still closely associated
i can hardly walk down the street anywhere or meet up with strangers in a parking lot or a restaurant or an elevator but what they will say i've never forgotten to kill a mockingbird or i became a lawyer because of you middle aged men are constantly telling me that they became lawyers because they saw to kill a mockingbird when they were young
so in the sense that whatever people got from it i'm the one that gets a great deal of credit because i'm the most visible one of all the people who had anything to do with it and the most recognizable
atticus do you defend niggers
don't say nigger scout
i didn't say it cecil jacobs did
that's why i had to fight him
scout i don't want you fighting
anyway i'm simply defending a negro tom robinson
now scout there are some things that you're not old enough to understand just yet
there's been some high talk around town to the effect that i shouldn't do much about defending this man
well if you shouldn't be defending him then why are you doing it
for a number of reasons
main one is that if i didn't i couldn't hold my head up in town
i couldn't even tell you or jem not to do something again
most people would agree that the racial problems of the nineteen thirties when the book was set have greatly improved in alabama
the civil rights movement has a long legacy here
but a recent case has many people questioning just how much things have changed since the era of segregation
the tale is chronicled in a book published last year by journalist pete early
circumstantial evidence tells the story of an assault on a white woman allegedly by a black man
not in fictional macum in the nineteen thirties but in monroeville in nineteen eighty six
the name of this dry cleaners in the center of monroeville has been changed since the saturday morning ten years ago when an eighteen year old employee named rhonda morrison was brutally killed
the police eventually charged a forty five year old black man named walter mcmillan with the murder
on appeal the case drew the attention of brian stephenson who represents death row inmates for the alabama equal justice initiative
police couldn't solve the crime
seven eight months went by
a great deal of community concern about the fact that the crime had not been solved
we believe mr. mcmillan was arrested and convicted primarily to respond to that community pressure
mcmillan did have a criminal record mostly small time drug dealing but stephenson believes he was singled out primarily because he was having an affair with a local white woman just as tom robinson the character convicted of rape in to kill a mockingbird was singled out because he had the temerity to feel sorry for a white woman
like the case against robinson mcmillan's was deeply flawed
the investigation was characterized by shoddy police work
dozens of witnesses placed mcmillan somewhere else at the time of the crime
the state later acknowledged prosecutors had withheld evidence from the defense and testimony from key prosecution witnesses was proved tainted
nonetheless after a three day trial walter mcmillan was sentenced to death
it was not to kill a mockingbird
it's not never has been
it's just not
marilyn handley is the editor of the weekly monroeville journal
i think the reason that it bothered this community so much is that it was the first time that a truly innocent young very young person had been brutally murdered right here
rhonda was one of our own
she was a little hometown girl had great potential and when she was killed it disturbed the balance of the community because it did not make sense
no one in my belief no one intentionally botched the investigation
as you said rhonda morrison was one of your own
uh huh
she's just a local girl
right
just a local girl
so did that put a lot of pressure to find somebody a suspect
i think it did but anytime there's a murder in a small town there's a lot of pressure because we really do live in a world where we don't lock our doors here
so in the attempt to find somebody was there an injustice done to walter mcmillan
i don't think so
i don't think so
it wasn't the local white officials who decided let's go find a black man preferably one who's having an affair with a white woman and let's make him the sacrificial lamb here that didn't happen
despite six appeals it wasn't until nineteen ninety three after the c. b. s. program sixty minutes broadcast a report on this case that the state appeals court reversed the conviction
many monroeville residents are proud of the racial climate in their community and take offense at the comparisons between walter mcmillan and the fictional tom robinson
they note that in the end the system did work
robinson was killed in the book but mcmillan though he did spend six years on death row was ultimately exonerated
and indeed it's worth nothing that monroeville throughout the often violent civil rights era had a better record than many neighboring communities
desegregation went smoothly here and town fathers chose not to fight voter registration
blacks and whites working together thwarted the ku klux klan when the group threatened black schoolchildren marching in a christmas parade
eventually the klan gave up on efforts to organize in the county
today an all black choir wearing long robes bordered in kenta cloth is performing in the monroeville courthouse
attending the concert is a visiting diplomat from israel
all sorts of people show up in monroeville these days but perhaps the most important visitors are the youngest ones those who come to study the exhibitions about rosa parks and martin luther king as well as the displays on truman capote and harper lee
within minutes of making their way upstairs to the courtroom a group of young teens from a neighboring town break into a little spontaneous play acting
one sits in the judge's chair another on the witness stand
several run to the jury box
we'd love to report that they then jumped into an impromptu re enactment of tom robinson's trial but it was a more recent case they chose to portray
miss kent where was you during the time when nicole brown simpson were killed
at home
objection objection objection
she's being she's leading the witness
can't you understand
though they were miming marcia clark and johnnie cochran not atticus finch these students are familiar with the book that made this courtroom famous
many have read to kill a mockingbird and some are currently studying it in school
shamika beetus' favorite part of the novel is when the finch family's maid brings scout and jem to her church a black church where she's confronted by another member who thinks white children shouldn't be there
shamika says that that church member even though she was black was being prejudiced and that there's a lesson there for all of us
that you can't be prejudice to everybody that you see
you have to get in their shoes and their skin and walk around with it to see how other people feel
at a time in our country when racial divisiveness seems once again on the rise harper lee's simple tale now thirty six years old is still able to coax young readers like shamika beetus towards understanding reason and compassion
the story of scout and jem their innocence gone is compelling as ever
and atticus wise atticus remains an ideal
a jury never looks at a defendant it has convicted and when this jury came in not one of them looked at tom robinson
the foreman handed a piece of paper to mr. tate who handed it to the clerk who handed it to the judge
i shut my eyes
judge taylor was polling the jury
guilty guilty guilty
i peeked at jem
his hands were white from gripping the balcony rail and his shoulders jerked as if each guilty was a separate stab between them
it was jem's turn to cry
his face was streaked with angry tears as we made our way through the cheerful crowd
it ain't right he muttered all the way to the corner of the square where we found atticus waiting
atticus was standing under the street light looking as though nothing had happened
his vest was buttoned his collar and tie were neatly in place and his watch chain glistened
he was his impassive self again
it ain't right atticus said jem
no son it's not right
how could they do it
how could they
i don't know but they did it
they've done it before and they did it tonight and they'll do it again
and when they do it it seems that only the children weep
our story return to macum was narrated and produced by peter breslow written by david scheff and edited by deborah george
field reporting by flawn williams
readings from to kill a mockingbird by deborah haslett
thanks to steven lange at warner brothers records
this is n. p. r.'s weekend edition i'm neal conan
this is weekend edition
i'm neal conan
what one observer described as mass hysteria animated the auction this week of jacqueline kennedy's personal effects at sotheby's auction house in new york
mrs. kennedy's fake pearls were sold for vastly more than real ones would cost
and among the jewelry and furniture and knick knacks at the garage sale of the century were two of president kennedy's famous rocking chairs which together brought nearly a million dollars
originally a dozen rockers were made specially by larry arata the then white house upholsterer
and they're still being made by his widow norma arata who joins us on the line from her home in mcclain virginia
thanks for speaking with us
oh thank you
the way i heard this story was that president kennedy had back problems and his doctor asked your future husband to redesign some of the white house furniture
that is correct
mrs. kennedy brought larry from cape cod to do all the furniture in the white house one hundred twenty three rooms and she wanted larry to help the president with his bad back
so she and larry who's a furniture specialist and dr. travell who is a bone specialist they put their heads together and the president had many sittings in the rocker
so larry tried many modifications and he just couldn't sit in anything else but the rocker
his back problems were that bad
oh yes
he was in excruciating pain all the time
he had one in his office
he had one in his bedroom
he had one in florida and one at cape cod
and when he went on a domestic or foreign trip they always took a rocker on the plane
he couldn't slouch and he otherwise he would be in in excruciating pain
i mean he just had to sit properly
if if i had a kennedy rocker and compared it to the the rocker i i've got in my basement now what would look different
well most rockers are very very low
that's the problem that most people have
they're too low
they can't get up from them
and with this here we've never had anybody complain because of the added cushions the two inches for the seat and one inch added wooden arm and two inches of the foam rubber on top
and then of course it was all custom upholstered besides
now there were originally a dozen rockers made for president kennedy
that is correct
when did your husband decide to start making more
well he had so many people that had bad backs that asked him to make one for them and that's how it started word of mouth
this is literally a cottage industry for you
you you make them in the in the basement of your of your house there
a workshop yes
and we've had so many people actually order them
like for instance arnold schwarzenegger has one and oh i could just go on and on and tell you all the people
and of course nobody realized how valuable they would turn out to be especially this auction
i was going to ask you
i mean we know that those used ones this week went for something close to half a million dollars a piece
yes that's right
now what was your reaction when you first saw that price
oh i i was just overwhelmed
i i knew they were going to raise quite a bit of money but never did i think it would be close to a half a million dollars
the estimate i think was what three or four thousand dollars
was three to five thousand dollars
that's correct
why do you think people are willing to pay so much money for for mrs. kennedy's possessions
well they they thought a great deal of the president and and mrs. kennedy
they brought so much excitement and i felt the excitement myself everyday that i went to work
you were working for president kennedy in the congressional liaison office right
correct
i handled the one hundred senators
and i think the whole country the whole world felt that excitement
i mean i happened to come from massachusetts and so did larry
but i think you didn't have to come from massachusetts to to have that same feeling
it it was just there and it was in the air and you were surrounded by it every single day
thanks very much
you're welcome i'm sure
norma arata makes and sells the kennedy rocker in her home in mcclain virginia
this is weekend edition
scott simon's away this week i'm neal conan
in south lebanon today hundreds of thousands of refugees are returning to their homes
the cease fire between israel and hezbollah guerrillas is apparently holding
that agreement followed a full week of shuttle diplomacy by u. s. secretary of state warren christopher
israeli prime minister shimon peres syrian president hafez assad and lebanese president rafik hariri agreed to but did not sign a short document setting out terms of the cease fire
n. p. r.'s ted clark has our story
the document allows continued fighting between israeli forces and hezbollah guerrillas within the so called security zone a buffer zone inside lebanon that israel has occupied for years
but the understanding as the document is called seeks to prevent another spillover of combat into the civilian areas of southern lebanon and northern israel
it explicitly prohibits attacks outside the security zone
there is no enforcement mechanism the understanding will only work if israel lebanon and syria abide by the terms they've agreed to
in its broad outlines the understanding is similar to an arrangement brokered by secretary christopher in nineteen ninety three during the last major flare up between israel and hezbollah
but the new agreement has provisions that make it stronger than the old one at least that's the hope
for example the new understanding prohibits hezbollah from initiating attacks from its own civilian areas even if those attacks are directed into the security zone
secretary christopher
and that was designed to prevent hezbollah or other groups there from in effect hiding behind civilian areas or using them for launching processes
if hezbollah stops firing from civilian areas israel will stop shooting back into those areas but israeli forces retain the right to go after hezbollah in civilian zones if guerrillas fire from there
the understanding also creates a monitoring group to check on compliance with the cease fire
the united states france israel lebanon and syria are all part of the group
robert satloff of the washington institute for near east policy
i happen to think that this body probably won't ever meet and will not be very effective in monitoring violations but it does send a political message that despite supporting hezbollah supplying hezbollah and assisting hezbollah syria also wants to keep open its possibility of renewing peace talks with israel
but the new understanding falls short of what israel hoped to achieve with its campaign in southern lebanon
steven zunis of the university of san francisco says president assad who controls much of lebanon prevented full realization of israel's goals
israel initially appeared to insist that all attacks be stopped not just raining katyusha rockets on civilian targets in israel but even attacks against israeli soldiers in israeli occupied lebanon
assad was not about to give in to that because the vast majority of lebanese recognize that when a country is under foreign military occupation people have a right to resist
there was a lot of pressure on assad to give them these terms he refused and at that point christopher made it clear to the israelis that he was not going to budge on that and they had to settle for something less
assad's prestige has grown in the arab world as a result of his tough stand in the cease fire negotiations zunis says and hezbollah's standing has also improved at least within lebanon
israel has won an end to fighting that threatened to become a quagmire and there are now stronger safeguards against hezbollah attacks
as for lebanon half a million refugees can now return to their homes in the south and begin to rebuild
this is ted clark in washington
reporter jennifer griffin has been on the road today heading south from beirut and she joins us by phone from tyre
good morning jennifer
hello
what are you seeing on the coast road there as you head south from beirut
well the cars are jam packed bumper to bumper all the way from beirut to tyre
people are packed ten and twelve per car
they have mattresses strapped to the roofs of their car because they're not really sure what they're going to see when they get to the other end
they're not sure whether their houses survived all the bombing attacks and they're not sure where they're going to sleep tonight
there are a lot of people who have tied black ribbons to their antennas in memory of the dead the people who have died in the last sixteen days
and i wonder how much faith do they put in this cease fire
well the people of lebanon they've seen a lot of war and they've seen a lot of broken cease fires but right now they think this cease fire is going to hold
they're confident that it's going to last but the question is for how long
what i've been hearing from people i've been talking to is that they feel that it's only a matter of time before the hostilities reach a level where there's more fighting
how bad is the destruction in southern lebanon
are the roads open
are the villages habitable at this point
it's really unbelievable
the roads from tyre out to the smaller villages are completely cratered with bomb holes where rockets and shells have fallen
i mean some of the most of the roads are really impassable and a lot of the cars are being stopped and made to wait while the u. n. tries to make sort of alternative routes into these villages but it's really difficult because these are mountainous areas
the destruction is massive
there are many homes along the route that have been that are just rubble and that combined with the craters in the road it's just it's quite a scene
what about reconstruction
it's early yet but are there plans afoot to begin reconstructing
yeah there are some plans
the french have had a big presence here since the fighting began and they've vowed to help with some of the electric transformers that were destroyed when the israelis bombed beirut and they've offered to bring two transformers in but the government estimates it'll cost about eighty million dollars to get the electricity back up and running
what did the immediate future look like to most of the people you're speaking with
a lot of the people are just trying to get on with their lives
they're worried about their homes and you know already people are sweeping out the homes trying to make them livable again
i talked to one boy who five days ago was hit by an incoming israeli shell
he was sitting in the second floor of his house in a little village yadir which is near khana and his face is totally scarred from the burns from that attack and he and his family can't reach their home right now because the road is destroyed but they're waiting for the u. n. to help them
he said that his house right now looks like a carton with the edges folded in and he says that he's going to be ready the next time israeli shells fall he's going to join hezbollah
thanks very much jennifer
thanks neal
reporter jennifer griffin speaking with us from tyre lebanon
federal agents confiscated ten pipe bombs and put two men under arrest after raiding their homes in central georgia yesterday
the men are the leaders of a small militia group in the state
they were charged with conspiracy to possess unregistered explosive devices
initial reports indicated that the men may have been targeting sites where the olympic games will be held in atlanta this summer but federal officials say there is no evidence to support those reports
from atlanta n. p. r.'s kathy lohr reports
federal officials displayed the collection of ten different kinds of explosive devices that were confiscated when agents searched two rural sites the homes of robert starr the third and william mccranie junior
some of the pipe bombs were laden with sharp pieces of metal
federal authorities also found bomb making chemicals a number of unassembled pipe bomb components a letter referring to the georgia militia and a cloth with writing that read check it out and die but after showing off the hardware and promising more details last night federal officials refused to comment further about the arrests of the two men and the bombing plot the agents say they uncovered
thirty four year old robert starr owned an electric company in macon georgia
thirty year old william mccranie is a plumber who works in macon
government officials say their organization the georgia republic militia has eleven to fifteen members
noah chandler is with the center for democratic renewal in atlanta a group that monitors klan and militia activity nationwide
chandler says smaller groups like this one have flourished in this part of the south
a lot of these militia groups are based with you know with three to five to fifteen members
you know somewhat of a leaderless resistance type organizing that lewis beam of the aryan nation promotes is to organize small and to not have an affiliation with any larger groups and oftentimes not even naming yourself as such a group not identifying yourself
so you know in georgia i mean there's at least seven militias active
a federal informant who attended several meetings with the militia members said that earlier this month mccranie talked about blowing up a bomb on his property and even bragged that he had enough chemicals to make forty bombs
the informant said that starr a well known militia member in this area recounted that he wanted to make as many bombs as possible and one week ago when the informant was on mccranie's property he saw pre mixed explosives fuses and chemicals
starr allegedly told the informant that he wanted the pipe bombs to be fully armed by today april twenty seventh
federal officials believe starr planned to distribute the pipe bombs to any militia members who wanted them
initial reports said that the militia group intended to target a dozen olympic sites but now federal authorities say there is no evidence of any link to the olympic games which will be held in atlanta beginning july
still georgians were nervous yesterday even as they talked about the extensive security arrangements they've already made for the more than ten thousand athletes who will compete in atlanta this summer
scott mall is a spokesman for the atlantic committee for the olympic games
mall says atlanta will be ready but won't over react
i will tell you that it will be a pervasive security system
it will have a lot of electronic security in place and presence physical presence of thousands of law enforcement officers and at the same time because this is the united states are aren't going to turn atlanta into an armed camp
f. b. i. agents conducted anti terrorism exercises in and around atlanta last week
they say they're ready for any emergency
the two men arrested yesterday are being held in a county jail in georgia awaiting a hearing on monday
i'm kathy lohr in atlanta
this week the united methodist church apologized for an atrocity that occurred over a century ago
in one thousand eight hundred sixty four with gold fever running high in the colorado territory a lay methodist preacher named john chivington led an attack on a peaceful village of native americans
more than one hundred fifty people cheyenne and arapahoes were massacred that day
delegates at the methodist church's quadrennial meeting in denver passed the resolution this week with little dissent
pending is another resolution urging congress to pay restitution compensation promised to surviving cheyenne and arapaho families after the attack was never paid
says one pastor it's still an open wound
i think offering the hand of reconciliation will go a long way
this is weekend edition
i'm neal conan
we have achieved the goal of our mission which was to achieve an agreement that will save lives and end the suffering of people on both sides of the israeli lebanese border
u. s. secretary of state warren christopher brokered a cease fire this week to end sixteen days of fighting between israel and hezbollah guerrillas
there was also progress in israel's evolving relationship with the palestinians
dan schorr is away this week
here with us to review the week's news is steve roberts a senior writer at u. s. news and world report
thanks for joining us steve
morning neal
this fighting in southern lebanon and northern israel did last sixteen days
it just seems to emphasize the need for a peace agreement between israel and syria and israel and lebanon
is there any indication that the parties here were trying to use this cease fire talks as a springboard for a broader agreement
i think there is certainly that hope on the part of the americans and certainly on the part of the israelis
prime minister peres said that this agreement was really a draft in a way of a larger peace agreement
the real question is the attitude of the syrians
there is some hope that because the syrians did cooperate on this eventually putting pressure on the hezbollah guerrillas in southern lebanon that they now will move on that certain confidence has been built up that certain communication lines have been established
but the syrians are pulled in many different directions neal and it's still not clear whether they're interested in a long range peace
but certainly it's a hopeful sign that because they talked on this they can talk on other things
well are talks do you think going to have to wait until after the israeli elections which are what a month a little bit more away
well you know i think that's probably true
this agreement had a lot to do with israeli politics
the labor government is in a desperate fight to stay in office and it was clear that by making this agreement syria was casting its lot with the labor government and on the side of peace talks just as iran which was encouraging the hezbollah insurgency was casting its lot with the likud the conservative party which has opposed peace talks
and in many ways this has become a struggle over the future of israeli politics and at least so far the forces that are in favor of keeping the peace talks going seem to be winning but it's very fragile
well if talks between israel and syria are still frozen israel and the palestinians did move closer on a really key ideological issue
the palestinians' top body this week declared that it no longer seeks the destruction of the state of israel and i guess in a kind of quid pro quo the israeli ruling party labor dropped its opposition to the establishment of a palestinian state
now does that suggest that things are moving along on the palestinian track
it certainly suggests that these two groups want them to move along
there are a lot of enemies on both sides within israel against the peace process and of course within the palestinian community
but it emphasizes the point neal how much arafat as the leader of his faction in the palestinian world and peres leader of israel need each other because they're the ones they depend on each other for progress to show that there are benefits to peace to show that the other side is good willed
and this exchange of gestures is very important symbolically
changing
when you think about it an israeli prime minister saying we now acknowledge the possibility of a palestinian state is an enormous change and the same way the palestinians saying we no longer believe in the destruction of israel that of course is the future of the middle east if the forces of peace have their way
so i do think it's important and it does point up that the how these two forces have been pushed together
let's talk briefly about politics in italy
for fifty years italy's left the communist party was frozen out of power
sometimes enormous jiggering had to be done to accomplish this
this past week the italian left assumes power for the first time
this is a huge change
it is a change
you have to realize of course that the right in italy had been widely discredited by a series of scandals
the former prime minister silvio berlusconi who had also been a media magnate in italy had widely seen as a failure so partly this is the natural cycle of politics the outs replacing the ins
but it's also true as you mentioned that in this post cold war world in some ways the whole idea of communism has lost its threat
it's lost its resonance
i covered the italian elections of nineteen seventy six 1976 twenty years 20 ago which had been the previous high water mark for communists in italy and really anywhere in any country in europe
then the great fear was communist party no matter what they said was still beholden to moscow still taking orders from the center
that's not true anymore and in some ways that's helped the former communists to insist that they really are independent you see in a country like russia of course where you have the possibility of former communists doing very well there in the elections as well
but at the same time that italy has moved left a lot of post war governments in europe which have established these very expensive welfare states are now finding that particularly in a much more competitive global economy they can't afford it anymore
and this week chancellor kohl of germany a very significant move announced to great criticism that he was going to propose tremendous reductions in the cost of the german welfare state raising the retirement age for women for instance
so it's there are cross currents operating at the same time throughout europe
well speaking of reducing the cost of government after some delay here in washington this week the democrats and the republicans finally agreed on a budget
yes they took seven months to agree on a budget that will only last for five months
that's not great cost benefit ratio there
both sides claim victory
the republicans said we have succeeded in cutting a significant amount of money twenty dollars twenty three billion dollars by some estimates out of the budget democrats said we won because we blocked the most extreme proposals of the republicans
in my view neal they're both right
the republicans have changed the terms of the debate in this city
there is a much different mentality about government spending than there used to be and i think you've got to give the credit to the republicans for pushing that
at the same time the democrats did succeed in blocking significant republican cuts in just those areas where the people believe the government has a role for instance student loans enforcement of environmental laws osha the occupational health and safety administration which guarantees safety in the workplace
the fact is that americans are very ambivalent about government neal
they hate government in the abstract
they like specific government programs and this deal reflects that ambivalence because it makes some cuts and yet protects other programs
well from agreement then onto gridlock i'm thinking here of immigration and the minimum wage
and there are some surprising political developments on both those issues
well the democrats have seized on the minimum wage issue
they've been accused of playing a lot of political games
the accusations are right they are playing a lot of political games
but the republicans have handed them an issue here neal
it plays into one of the biggest republican weaknesses which is this view that even though as i say americans don't like government and they don't like taxes and they don't like bureaucrats they also don't believe a government should be harsh and they don't believe that a government should be mean
and the great problem for the democrats is proving they're not taxers and spenders
the great problem for republicans is proving that they're not that they care about average people
and the minimum wage is a perfect issue for the democrats because it's clear it's simple it's direct unlike most government issues and it evokes this notion of the republicans are being hard hearted
the immigration issue is one where it has split the parties right down the middle because you have one wing of the republican party saying we have to stand with against immigration as pat buchanan did in the campaign as governor wilson did in california
we have to protect our jobs
we have to protect our borders and yet there's another whole wing of the republican party which says just a minute
we have to be open to immigrants
our future lies in opening our arms not pushing immigrants away and so there's a very interesting debate and i think in the end the pro immigration side is likely to come out ahead
amazing to see the democrats a little bit more united than the republicans
that's right
well the republicans have they're a big party
they have a lot of splits now
thanks very much for coming in steve and for canceling your tennis game for dan schorr
steve roberts of u. s. news and world report
this is weekend edition i'm neal conan
coming up awaiting the verdict on a. b. c. t. v.'s murder one but first there is now more hallowed ground in baseball than yankee stadium
it's the house that ruth built and it's where the babe's single season home run record was broken
two balls no strikes on roger maris
here's the windup
fast ball hit deep to right this could be it
it's out there
holy cow
and yet these days there is serious talk that the bronx bombers are looking for a new home
the yankees' principal owner george streinbrenner thinks the team could make more money in a new stadium on manhattan's west side maybe or even in new jersey
joe nocera a contributing editor of fortune magazine joins us from our bureau in new york
nice to talk to you joe
nice to be here neal
now that name george steinbrenner everybody knows is synonymous with civic virtue and quiet altruism
surely the welfare of the city and the fans are uppermost in his every thought
as ever as ever
you know poor george
he looks at baltimore and he sees they have a wonderful new stadium with luxury boxes and they're making tons of money
the actual valuation of the baltimore franchise has gone up thirty percent just since they bought the stadium since they got the stadium
he looks at cleveland with a wonderful new stadium which by the way is sold out for the entire season already and he says why can't i have this too and by god he can and the sad thing is he almost surely will and it won't be yankee stadium in the bronx
well what are the realistic options that are under consideration now
well there are three options
one is the restore yankee stadium to its former glory but add a whole bunch of luxury boxes that will allow george to get even more wealthy than he already is
in fact the city of new york has proposed thirteen renovations over the course of the last decade or so
thirteen plans george has rejected each and every one of them
he really has no interest in being in yankee stadium
he wants a new stadium by god and he's going to get it
so then there are two other possibilities
one is to build a billion dollar yes a billion dollar multi use stadium on platforms over a train yard in the west side of new york city
and the second option is to build a baseball only stadium in or around the meadowlands area in new jersey which after all is where the new york giants already play and the new york jets the new well whatever you call the jets new york or new jersey
and steinbrenner is playing the two governments against each other brilliantly as each tries to outdo the other to attract the new york yankees
now the key issue as i understand it is those luxury boxes
does that really make that much difference in terms of how much a ball team's owner is going to make
it actually goes beyond luxury boxes
if you get to the point where you're going to build a stadium you can sell to people something called seat rights which is a one time only fee that doesn't give you the actual seat but only the right to purchase a season ticket for that seat later
so that's one revenue stream
luxury boxes are a second revenue stream
a third revenue stream is how much of the parking can you control
how much of the concessions can you control
what kind of lease deal can you get
and the fourth thing is that a new stadium and especially one of these nice new stadiums like baltimore and cleveland really re energizes the feel that people have for the team and so people want to go to the ball park because it's a great ball park because it's a fun place to watch a game and so cleveland's attendance even though the size of their stadium has shrunk from eighty thousand in the old stadium to about forty five thousand in the current one their attendance is way way up as a result and they make a lot more money from that
so there's about five or six different revenue streams that a new stadium can bring into play
there's one other revenue stream that you didn't mention though and that's the name
i mean is there any way in the world that when this new ball park goes up they're going to call it yankee stadium or do economics make it inevitable that we're going to see you know i. b. m. field or seagram's stadium or something like that
well first of all i actually don't think there ever will be a west side stadium
i just don't think the people of new york are that interested in having one and i think the mayor of new york rudy giuliani is fighting an uphill battle
i think that ultimately when you find a fifty five thousand seat stadium in new jersey it will be exactly as you suggest the i. b. m. yankee stadium or yankee stadium at i. b. m.
at i. b. m. yards
maybe they could rip one off on the orioles like that
now maybe i'm naive but don't sentiment and history have some tangible value that would bolster the case for the bronx
boy you sure are naive neal
there's really very little sentiment involved here
this is a business transaction pure and simple
there is no one in the baseball industry that is going to stop steinbrenner since they're all trying to do the same thing themselves
there was no one in the city of new york outside of the bronx borough president fernando ferrair who's trying to keep the yankees in the bronx
it doesn't have any forward momentum and you know the fact of the matter is streinbrenner does own the yankees and he does have the right to do with it what he wants as much as we may hold our nose as he's doing it
thanks very much joe
thanks a lot neal
joe nocera is a contributing editor for fortune magazine
he spoke with us from our bureau in new york
now this final note on the news
for twenty years now riders on washington's subway system have become accustomed to those electronic chimes which signal that the doors are about to open or close
the sounds come from speakers located just over the doors to give new riders and the visually impaired an audible cue to help them find their way in or out
now a bright spark in metrorail's operations office has determined that a voice is easier to locate than chimes so the system has begun to install this recording
doors closing
to keep up with our high tech times the voice isn't on tape
it was recorded onto a computer chip and since computer chips are capable of a great deal more than simple announcement folks at metrorail have given the electronic herald another aspect
they have made it a smart voice with a built in instant response for those occasions when somebody with an armful of packages a wet umbrella and three small children blocks the entrance and the driver has to reset the doors
stand clear of the door
just what we need an automated voice with an attitude
what is it
big sister
stand clear of the door
more and more machines are talking back to us these days and if metrorail's idea catches on our lives could start sounding pretty hostile
imagine for a moment the smart voice programmed to respond when you roll over in the morning and hit the snooze alarm for a second time
wake up and smell the coffee mr.
or the smart voice of an impatient elevator
pick a floor any floor
we only go in two directions up or down
i suspect too that a lot of urban cowboys may not take kindly to these gentle reminders
so before matters get out of hand a suggestion to smart voice programmers from the clint eastwood phrase book smile when you say that partner
eighteen good bad and ugly minutes after the hour
someone is stealing the pay phones of borneo and it appears to be the fishermen
telecom malaysia reports more than nine hundred of its three thousand five hundred public phones vandalized on borneo island
an investigation reveals that local fishermen are cutting off the handsets hooking them up to high powered batteries and lowering them into the water
a high pitched sound produced when the electricity passes through the headset microphones apparently attracts fish to the fishermen's nets
a marine biologist notes that music piped into aquariums can get fish moving to the beat
talk about crowd surfing
in congress a high stakes game is being played out on the subject of gambling
an increasingly vocal group of anti gambling activists many with religious ties is calling for a national commission to study gambling's impact on states and communities
arrayed against it is the gambling industry which has assembled a high powered team of lobbyists
n. p. r.'s phillip davis tells us the odds that congress will pass gambling legislation in an election year
to senator paul simon of illinois a state that recently approved the creation of riverboat gambling his proposal now before the senate is a very modest one
we basically want to set up a commission to look at what is happening
this is the fastest growing industry in the united states today talking about legalized gambling and there are some negatives with it
on the other hand it does give indian tribes and local governments some revenue
but this simple study commission has become the focus of an increasingly intense political struggle
opponents of gambling are riding what they say is a growing backlash against the spread of gambling in the united states
many religious denominations are joining the cause as is the powerful christian coalition
heidi stirrup is chief washington lobbyist for the group
for christian coalition this is important
the last time that we have looked at this is in nineteen seventy six
it was twenty years ago and we have seen at that time gambling was really casino gambling was only evident in two states and today twenty years later all but two states have legalized gambling and it is time we think to take a look at this the impact that it's having not only socially but economically
not only on communities and states and local governments but individuals and families
gambling is now a forty dollar billion a year industry and gambling is also spreading onto indian reservations and onto the internet all of which the commission would be encouraged to look into
a gambling commission bill that passed last month in the house would give the commission wide ranging power to subpoena gambling industry records and officials
in response an alarmed gambling industry has set up a high powered lobbying effort called the american gaming association headed by frank farenkoff the former head of the republican party during the reagan administration
farenkoff says the gambling industry wouldn't mind an unbiased commission but he says
it's very clear from the rhetoric that that's not really the kind of commission that they're looking for
they're looking for something that's going to be a star chamber inquisition type commission that won't really be fair and biased
nevada senator richard bryan says the subpoena power could be used to intimidate people who patronize gambling establishments
once you get access to customer records then you have a real pall hanging over you know a casino player who said look i don't want the i. r. s. looking at my records as to whether i play you know at the eldorado or the silver legacy or the clarion or the nugget or circus circus and they say look i'm going to take my gaming recreational activity elsewhere and you know you don't have to go too far
you can go to canada
at least one of the bill's proponents admits that the commission's investigations might indeed try to get customer records
tom gray is the head of a grass roots group called the national coalition against legalized gambling
if those customer lists show that they've targeted people that can least afford to gamble then it might be good that we know that
if chilling effect means that we would maybe give caution to the seventeen year olds that are becoming compulsive gamblers or the seventy year olds that lose their retirement that maybe that would be a good thing for the community as a whole
the battlefield for this conflict is the senate governmental affairs committee led by senator ted stevens an alaskan republican
when stevens unveiled the committee version of simon's bill last week he was roundly criticized because the committee's bill didn't contain subpoena power and other provisions
stevens has been meeting with both sides on the issue
those familiar with the negotiations say the revised bill will likely increase the commission's proposed powers but that could be a peeric victory
a bill that is too tough would likely be filibustered by nevada's representatives all but destroying its chances for passage in what is left of a short legislative year
reporting from washington i'm phillip davis
weekend edition received several letters this week criticizing scott simon's interview with syrian foreign policy specialist murhaf jouejati
richard allen of new york city found it totally one sided and anti israel and s. rosen complained when asked if hezbollah bore moral responsibility for firing katyusha rockets into israel from a refugee site the syrian spokesman ignored the question
you did not even try to get him to address it
do you as an interviewer have a responsibility to put an interviewee's response into perspective or is providing a soapbox for speechmaking of more value to your listeners
a lot of letters too correcting our indictment of a particular garden pest
last week when gardening consultant ketzel levine was asked about the overwhelming numbers of slugs in her new hometown of portland oregon the mischievious garden villain was misidentified as a banana slug
nancy price of coos bay oregon writes the damage is not to be attributed to our native banana slug but to non native beasties whose common name is the english slug
john anderson of olympia washington urges this program to set the record straight on our much maligned native banana slug o. k.
after checking some sources including the banana slug home page on the world wide web we found that the banana slug is not a serious garden pest
in fact it's a forest species that only occasionally finds itself in a suburban garden
as slugs go the banana slug is quite the looker it can be yellow tan brown black brown or white often with spots and it can grow eight or even ten inches long
and finally alice derbyshire of cromb texas wrote after hearing scott simon's interview a few weeks ago with andre riyeux the waltz king of europe
i have often felt that life is too short to spend it not waltzing and now with the rest of the letter we give the floor to ms. derbyshire
in my life i've twirled around the piano as a toddler while my mom played the blue danube and then waltzed gracefully through the house by my dad while he sang bicycle built for two
i've waltzed in a hayloft with a golden eyed scotsman and across the kitchen floor with a dog on two legs
i've waltzed with my babe in arms and with that same babe years later in a fourteen year old body with size thirteen feet
i've waltzed by myself and i've been waltzed in absentia
but i was happy to discover that really anything with at least two legs and a pulse can waltz and the real romance is with the moment shared by both partners kept by each and rekindled by every waltz every time
you can send your musical musings and reminiscences to weekend edition saturday letters six hundred thirty five massachusetts avenue northwest washington d. c. two zero zero zero one or e. mail us at wesat w. e. s. a t. at nprorganization
and please include your postal service address
now some men might assume that getting up with the baby in the middle of the night is women's work but as this next story teaches us tending to the baby is not only a life experience that both parents can enjoy it can also be a creative opportunity
musician michael wolff explains how he found inspiration during a two o'clock a. m. feeding
i have a one year old son named nathaniel
the first six months of his life he was not a good sleeper
one evening around two o'clock a. m. i went in picked him up while he was crying put him on my shoulder and began rocking on the rocking chair
as i was rocking back and forth i felt a rhythm happening and my son was crying
all of the sudden i was hearing three notes and it gave me a melody it gave me an idea of what i wanted to do
and then while i was rocking him the rocking was going back and forth like
i thought well that's kind of a bass line so what i did was that when he finally fell asleep i went upstairs and i just wrote down these three notes which are c. g. flat d. flat and then i just wrote down quarter notes for a bass
i didn't even have the tones in
just i think it was over an e. flat
i went
the next day i got up and it just came to me
this is the blues
so i sat down and finished it off and made it into a blues
musician michael wolff lives in los angeles
his latest album is called jumpstart
this weekend the holy city of mecca in saudi arabia is filled with pilgrims from all over the world
millions of muslims have converged on the city for the annual hajj one of the five pillars of islam religious duties that all muslims must fulfill
the haff is a profound experience for devout muslims
all muslims who are physically and financially able to do so must travel to mecca and perform the rituals of the haff at least once in their lifetime
the rites of the haff begin even before the pilgrims enter the holy city when they shed their regular clothes and drape themselves in two pieces of unsewn white cloth
the hajj says ibrahim hooper of the council on american islamic relations is a leveling experience for muslims
it is a time of repentance and rebirth
some people have compared it to a rehearsal for judgment day
everybody is there in the same condition
you're dressed the same you're doing the same acts you're worshipping the same god
it's a time of renewal
and when you're finished with hajj it's like you're a newborn baby
some two million to three million muslims travel each year to mecca for the hajj converging on the holy city from all over the world
it is says hooper an extraordinary event that emphasizes the universal nature of islam
you see an amazing variety of people
you'll see tall tall nigerians you'll see short yemenis you'll see people from china you see people from tadzhikistan you see people from america
you see all of these people coming together in one place to worship god
it's a very striking thing to see the diversity and the variety of people coming to pilgrimage
for many the pilgrimage begins in an airport far from mecca
recently one group of pilgrims boarded a plane at dulles airport in virginia for the first part of their journey to the holy city
flight oh three eight to riyadh and dhahran is now ready for boarding at gate e.
the pilgrims ranged from an elderly grandmother dressed entirely in white making the hajj for the first time in her life to young american muslims like nicco vangolopolis who began practicing islam less than two years ago
vangolopolis was traveling to mecca for his first hajj with a donated ticket arranged for by the leaders of his mosque who believe the experience of the hajj will teach young muslims about their religion
it's the only event that i've known in my life that two or three million people get together to worship you know the one true god
and you don't know who's rich poor or what worshipping the one true god all equal standing before him
does this feel like a privilege to be able to do this
yeah it's been a blessing
the waiting room for the flight to saudi arabia was crowded with family and friends
it is traditional for muslims all over the world to gather at airports and train stations and boat docks to wish the pilgrims well
thank you so much for everything
may god reward all of us and guide us
thank you
for nicco vangolopolis it seemed as if the hajj had already begun even before he boarded the plane
i already feel like i'm there because i just met a brother from pakistan
you see people from like syria and jordan
so it's beautiful
so everybody's wishing each other may god accept their pilgrimage and it's beautiful it's beautiful
no doubt about it
nicco vangolopolis had a rare opportunity to make the pilgrimage to mecca early in his life as a muslim but for many muslims it takes years of planning and preparation for the hajj
muslims are not supposed to get into debt or neglect their other responsibilities in order to travel to mecca
for those who have waited a long time for the chance to go on the hajj the experience is intense
the focal point of all their effort is the cabbah the holiest shrine in islam which muslims turn toward every day when they pray
located inside the great mosque in mecca the cabbah is a simple black stone building believed to be the first house of worship built by abraham and his son ishmael
osama kandil an egyptian doctor who lives in virginia remembers the first time he saw the cabbah during the hajj
anxiety was building up and i wanted to go quickly
and i remember entering the mosque and you know the moment my eyes were laid on el cabbah it you know it was very emotional to see it for the first time
all the historical events all the struggles all the sacrifice
all of these images came to one's mind at the moment i saw the cabbah for the first time
in one of the rituals of the hajj the pilgrims circle the cabbah seven times while they pray
so many pilgrims crowd into the great mosque that some people are literally lifted off their feet and swept along by the crowd as they circle the cabbah
in the most important ritual of the hajj all of the pilgrims gather for a day of prayer and meditation on the plain of arafa where the prophet mohammed was said to have delivered his last sermon
this says dr. kandil is the culminating moment when the pilgrims are expected to reflect on their lives and repent their sins
it's an awesome spectacle when you see all of these people some of them sitting on the mountain some of them kneeling some of them sleeping some of them standing some of them praying some of them raising their hands asking forgiveness and it is not uncommon to see thousands and thousands of people crying and weeping and being emotionally caught in the moment
the pilgrims complete their rituals by cutting their hair to symbolize a break with the past and the start of a new life
it is that feeling of rebirth that muslims who have not been on the hajj long for
niha duwad director of the council on american islamic relations says the time of the hajj can be difficult for muslims like himself who had not yet been able to go on the pilgrimage
when we see our brothers or sisters leaving to do the pilgrimage and we stay home it's very disheartening for us that we would like to do it sometime
so it is in everyone's mind that i hope that next year is my year next year is my year
this coming sunday muslims all over the world will observe the pilgrimage season with the celebration of eid al ata one of the two most important religious holidays in islam
muslims will gather to pray to give to the poor and to socialize with families and friends and some may be dreaming of the time when they too will see the cabbah and stand with thousands of other muslims on the plain of arafa
lightning never strikes twice
that is unless you're a member of kevin kling's family
i'll never forget the time my dad and i were struck by lightning
we were working on an airplane a bonanza airplane
now a bonanza has a split tail in back a v. tail
it's called an unconventional tail and i always liked that and we were working on this plane laying underneath it in a puddle of water and my dad asked for a screwdriver and i was handing it over to him when i look up and there's these big thunderheads moving in over us these big clouds we get in minnesota and i'm thinkin' oh man we're gonna get soakin' wet
when all of a sudden bam
this bolt of lightning strikes the puddle it goes through my body i feel my organs bonked together my spleen hit my stomach and my liver and i think god i've been hit by lightning
i've been hit by lightning and i think hey the fact i know i've been hit by lightning means i'm still alive
dad dad we've been hit by lightning and my dad says god dang it that does it let's go home
farm boy can't stay out here all day we'll just keep gettin hit by lightning so home we went
now a few years ago my father passed away and i was at his funeral sitting around this large table with all my uncles and my grandpa and my brother and we were remembering my dad as vividly as possible because we knew we weren't gonna get any new memories so we were holding on to those old ones as tight as we could and i decided to tell the story about the time dad and i got hit by lightning and i just started into it when all of a sudden my uncle don sitting next to me goes wait a second he goes wait a second here he says i've been hit by lightning
i've been hit three times and you know what
once you've been hit by lightning your chances of getting hit again increase by over fifty percent
uh oh my brother said
my brother said uh oh 'cause he was hit last summer pumping gasoline at a gas station
my grandpa said he was hit four times
grandpa said one time he was coming in from the field because it was raining out and he got to the front yard he was wearing his tool belt when all of a sudden bam
lightning struck and grandpa flew up in the air and formed a fountain with himself and his tools
my uncle byron said he was hit four times
uncle byron has a metal plate in his head from the war
he even drives one of those airstream trailer homes those metal trailer homes
we're saying byron you are begging for it pal but i found out right then and there that all my uncles my brother my grandpa my dad and myself we've all been hit by lightning
so i told them that story or the day as they put it i found out i was not adopted
kevin kling performs and writes plays in minnesota
he comes to us by way of minnesota public radio
this is weekly edition i'm lynn neary
when a crime is committed there is supposed to be a system in place that assures victims and their families that justice will be done
the criminal faces a trial and if convicted is sentenced to prison
in many cases that sentence is reduced if the criminal wins parole and when that happens some families feel that justice has not been done
but parole boards which make the final decision about just how long a sentence really is must weigh many competing concerns
the anger and anguish of the victims' families must be balanced against questions of public safety and humaneness not to mention the high cost of incarceration
and the inmate and his family get a chance to make their case as well
the very idea of parole is under attack right
federal courts no longer grant parole and all of the states have some sentences with no parole
n. p. r.'s robert siegel sat in on a day's worth of parole's hearings in alabama where parole boards still have a wide degree of discretion
in a montgomery hearing room day after day three parole board members hear the heartfelt pleas of families families of inmates who want them released and families of victims who want those inmates kept in prison
the board members are not judges they're political appointees and they hear all the parole cases in the state
each week starts with the most violent offenses
since this was a monday the inmates are mostly murderers more than two dozen of them
most of the inmates weren't there but their families were
the hearings pit victim against offender and often family against family
for example the parole hearing of bernice burnett junior a man serving time for an especially brutal murder he committed seventeen years ago
our hearings are informal and at this time the board would be interested in hearing from those of you present as to why you feel bernice should or should not be placed on parole
this hearing ran long about forty minutes because the families involved are enormous
burnett killed a man named ed fletcher in a jealous rage
he thought fletcher was seeing his ex wife then he killed his ex wife
he was convicted of both murders and sentenced to death
when alabama's capital punishment law was thrown out burnett had to be retried
he pleaded guilty to the first murder and was sentenced to life in prison
the second case was never reprocessed
at the parole hearing the burnett clan speaks first
good morning
my name is rosetta tibbs
i'm one of bernie's sisters
i'm number five out of eighteen children and i am also a sponsor for his eight hour passes and he's been getting an eight hour pass now twice a month and we've been having family gatherings and everything has just been wonderful
you know he's got a positive outlook on everything and he is very sorry for the crime he committed you know but what is done cannot be undone and we feel really bad about what happened also
but if the board grant him parole we will support him one hundred percent
after the burnett family come the numerous siblings of burnett's victim ed fletcher
some of them address the parole board holding a framed photograph of their murdered brother rescuing his memory from the abstraction of documents and the parole board's files
my name is lavonne fletcher and i'm ed's brother
look at the smile on ed's face
do you all think he was smiling the night he was gassed soaked down in gasoline hands tied behind his back
ladies and gentlemen look at the smile on this man's face
you think he was smiling that night
number
this man's got it made
he's driving a truck home he's granted week end passes
he can't come home never again
we can't touch him in the flesh
this is all we got of him soaked down in gasoline
can you believe somebody got to die that horrible death
my name is gail wicher and i'm ed fletcher's younger sister and i'm here begging the board to please reconsider keeping bernice burnett behind bars
nineteen seventy nine july the third was the last time i saw my brother
he come to my house and he asked me to fix him something to eat and there was rolls creamed potatoes and chicken and sweet peas and i can't fix that to this day
every time i look at it i think about him
and when my kids look on the wall they say mama who is that i say that was my oldest brother which was your uncle that y'all never got to know and when we have to come down here it's just like it just happened and i don't feel like he deserves to be out a free man
at least they can see him
i can't see my brother
my brother's not alive
it hurts so bad
and when we had his funeral the only thing we could put on his casket was his picture 'cause his body was burned beyond recognition
and every time i go to my mama and look at her she hasn't been the same since knowing the way her oldest son was taken from her
and you see he said he was going to give us the best fourth of july we ever had
and it was the saddest one we ever had
and every time it roll around all i can think of about is nineteen seventy nine our baby boy
please please don't let him out
in the years since bernice burnett murdered ed fletcher the victims of crime have won a place in the american criminal justice system
thanks to the victims' rights movement whenever burnett comes up for parole the board must notify ed fletcher's family
there's a special representative of the state attorney general who keeps the victim's families posted and who speaks on their behalf when they can't attend
and the definition of a victim is broad
even though bernice burnett is technically not convicted of his ex wife's murder her sister appears on her behalf as a victim and accuses him of things for which he was never charged
he tried to molest me when i was twelve
i also have a sister in the audience and he did the same thing to her
he threatened me not to tell my sister
the speakers at the parole board hearing are not under oath
there are no rules of evidence no cross examination
after hearing several speeches from the relatives of the victims of bernice burnett the board denied him parole
chairman john nettles who is also a baptist minister and state director of the southern christian leadership conference says those powerful emotional statements from the victims' families count for a lot in the parole board's decisions but not for everything
i can't make a decision based upon that alone the emotionalism of the family
they are most of the people who protest the families of the victim
they don't ever want him out
so i can't let that alone influence my decision because if i did i wouldn't parole anybody hardly
for each inmate there's a file full of reports and recommendations from parole officers a psychologist a warden
in alabama nearly all inmates are eligible for parole practically from the start of their sentences
since the restoration of the death penalty alabama has had a sentence life without parole but not in the days when many of today's parole cases began
chairman nettles says he wants to see if the inmate has been adequately punished rehabilitated and poses no risk of reoffending
there's an element in their proceedings of a resentencing hearing almost a retrial of the original offense
nettles and his two colleagues on the board louie grimes a businessman and judith o'connor who was a career parole officer agree that the original crime counts in their decision making
oh yes
the best predictor of future behavior is past behavior
that is the most consistent predictor of what someone will do in the future
so you have to look at that offense
i think we would be negligent if we didn't look at that offense
and agreed mr. grimes
i think that's true
we have to revisit the case somewhat because you will have a case that in one hand is a murder case where the defendant got a twenty year sentence
you may have a murder case where he got a ten year sentence
you may have a case where he got a fifty year sentence
so to some degree we have to revisit the case to put our three thoughts together to see what we think is deserving at that time
discrepancy in sentencing throughout the state is one of the main reasons there is a parole board
what does it mean in alabama for somebody in a murder case to get a ten year sentence a twenty year sentence or a fifty year sentence
from what i can see it all means that any time during that sentence that case can come back to you folks and you can decide how long the sentence really ought to be
is that true
i think that's true
that's correct
the parole board members say victims' arguments are just one factor among many but a preliminary study by the university of alabama at birmingham looked at a large sample of violent offenders who are up for parole and found that what the victims or their families say makes a very big difference
the more effort by the victim's family the more likely parole was denied
in cases where the victims or their families made just one or two protests by letter or personal appearance nearly half the inmates got parole but when they made eleven or more protests the rate of parole dropped to under twenty percent and showing up in person at the hearing is important
take the case of clayton tyler thirty seven years old and serving a life sentence
in nineteen eighty three tyler who was then in the coast guard beat his three year old stepson to death
he has been a model prisoner
he works at the corrections department state cattle ranch and there's a job on the outside waiting for him at a catfish farm
tyler is long since divorced from his young victim's mother
while serving his sentence he remarried
his current wife rhea anne tyler appeared on his behalf before the parole board
he has found christ and that is basically what has changed clayton more than anything
but more than that he has gone through stress programs
he has gone through anger programs voluntarily
he has gone through every program that was afforded to him that he could work into his work schedule
he went to school he got a degree
he went through bible correspondence courses
there was never a spare moment of his time
at the state cattle ranch he was given a job of incredible responsibility and he has risen to that occasion
he has done every day of that minimum eligibility plus three and a half years in an exemplary fashion and i feel like if we have a solid future ahead of us i do not do drugs or alcohol i have never done drugs or alcohol
i do not smoke i do not cuss
my vice is chocolate that's what i do but i have spent seven years of my life trying to work through things with clayton
he's come a long way in those seven years and i feel like he is totally ready to be part of society again and there are many other people who agree with me in that
i don't believe in third chances
i go this way but once with clayton and he knows it
in the past clayton tyler's ex wife the mother of the murdered child appeared at his parole hearings to oppose him
this time she didn't
she lives out of state
she did send a letter to the parole board and knowing that we would be covering tyler's hearing she sent us a letter too
she writes unfortunately i cannot afford to attend the parole hearing of my three year old son's murderer she alludes bitterly to the prison programs clayton tyler has pursued
i have not been given free education to advance my skills and earn an associate degree she says
i have not been given free counseling to help ease the sorrow pain and suffering i live with every day she describes her lot and that of other surviving kin of murder victims this way
we are scared
we are emotionally scarred
we are frustrated and most of us live for one day out of the year to hear parole denied we spend the next three hundred sixty four days agonizing and preparing for the day we hear parole granted
in the study conducted by the university of alabama at birmingham in cases where the offender was represented in person and the victim was not parole was likely to be granted
in the tyler case the board ran true to form
clayton tyler got parole
again parole board chairman john nettles
as a minister i know i wrestle with the problem of signing my name in releasing a murderer
and even with all of the information you have you still don't know whether or not this person is going to reoffend
if somebody were to propose completely eliminating all parole in the state of alabama what would be different
what would be worse about having no parole at all
well i think it goes back to dollars and cents
i don't think we can keep everybody incarcerated for the full term
the alabama penal system one think now grows like at a rate of one hundred inmates a month
that's one thousand two hundred a year
that's a good normal size prison per year that would have to be built in alabama every twelve months for a long period of time and alabama does not have the financial base to do that
i think one of the problems would be is you're making the assumption that parole is no punishment
you ought to talk to some of the inmates who choose to turn parole down because they don't want to be drug tested they don't want their travel restricted they don't want to have to work
and once they're released on parole they have a number of guidelines that they have to go by that we can always bring them back in they're not through with their sentence
i mean if they don't behave we revoke them and they go back to serving the remainder of that sentence
also having a definitive sentence means there's no encouragement for them to get treatment inside
there's no reason for them to behave any differently
because a bad actor and a model inmate would all
all be the same
get out at the same time
correct
the subject of parole inevitably leads to another tortured issue of american criminal justice plea bargaining
the possibility of parole is often what permits a judge to pronounce a sentence so long that a victim's family is satisfied while the criminal lured by the chance of early release is induced to plead guilty
if he does he spares the state the expense of a trial and the risk of acquittal
for example the case of barry eugene davis
on a nineteen seventy one crime spree davis then twenty years old murdered one man he admits as much was at least an accessory to a second murder if not the actual gunman and he committed three robberies
had he stood trial davis might have been convicted and sentenced to death
on the other hand he might have been acquitted
so he pleaded guilty in exchange for five life sentences with the possibility of parole
good morning
i'm steven davis and i'm barry's oldest brother and we welcome the opportunity to defend or ask for the release of barry back into society
when he was incarcerated he was promised that if he would plead guilty to these crimes he would get seven years
those seven years came and went
he's followed every rule that the institution has laid down for him and he has served twenty five years of his life
this does not change the set of circumstances that occurred back in nineteen seventy and seventy one
we can't change that
there's nothing the lord can do nothing either family can do
we ask for forgiveness from this family
we do not know how to ask other than to say please forgive
opposing davis' parole were several family members of one of the murder victims durward gilbert
gilbert had offered a lift to davis davis' wife and her brother jimmy widemon after their car had broken down
it was known as the good samaritan murder
his widow audrey gilbert addressed the board
they killed a man that had stopped to help them and then they're pleading for mercy for him
i'm pleading for mercy for my children and mercy that they get what the courts said he would get
they're saying that they told him he would get seven years
they told me that he would get five lifetime sentences and if i understand this right that's ten years for a life to run consecutively
i don't understand why we have to always come back up here and i know that i don't know the law and i know that y'all do but what it puts us through and what we have to go through and when we hear people saying we should forgive him
let me tell you i prayed and i ask god to forgive me for the way that i felt
but you have your husband and your babies' daddy's taken away from you i don't think you'd feel very good too
barry davis who pleaded guilty to the murder of durward gilbert is now an inmate at the saint clare correctional facility
he works there at the corrections department furniture factory
although his numbers are a little different from those his brother told the parole board he too says the state broke a deal
of course they did
the agreement was that if i would turn state's evidence against myself and against jimmy widemon in return they would see that i was sentenced to life on each case and recommend i be paroled in ten years and they would drop the cases on my wife
barry davis has spent his whole adult life in prison
at age forty five he believes he is rehabilitated
i'm older i guess and a lot smarter than what i was then
and you know i've tried to mature educationally or whatever you call it as much as you possibly can in here
and i don't have any hard feelings toward anybody not even the gilbert family
where i used to have a real short temper i don't anymore you know
i guess it comes with age i don't know
can you make sense of your own behavior back when you were seventeen years old eighteen years old
not at all not at all because i don't act like that now and matter of fact get mad when i see people around here acting like that
we've got a lot of kids around here just act the same way i do or i did at that time
not at all
none of it makes any sense
none of it was supposed to happen
for barry davis parole is not just part of the deal he says he struck
it is also his motivation for good conduct
you're not going to get me to work out here and you're not going to get me to act halfway right
you're not going to get me to take the crap off of other inmates that normally you would take trying to get out
no incentive
no incentive
no incentive at all
if you give me nothing to work for why would i work
on the other hand if there were truth in sentencing perhaps a judge who
he would have never sentenced me to five life sentences
wouldn't have sentenced you to five life sentences
that's true
based on his behavior in prison and his work record and the fact that he is now a middle aged man barry davis struck at least one of his evaluators as a good candidate for parole
but to the widow of his victim he must still be judged not by what he has become but by what he did
just think two murders
not just one but two
and tell me that he's changed
hey you have to be good when you're locked up
but let him out and see what happens
i beg you please please for our sake don't
barry eugene davis was denied parole
he'll be eligible for another hearing in one year and if he's denied then he could come back a year later
mrs. gilbert says she'll be there too
my sons will keep coming my sons' sons will keep coming
we'll always be here at every parole
thank you
prisons are bulging with inmates
there's economic pressure on corrections departments to get them out of prison as soon as possible but public pressure on prosecutors and judges is to be tough so they seek and give sentences which when taken in the aggregate the state cannot afford
so the parole board doesn't so much decide who should get parole as which of the many inmates with favorable recommendations in an overpopulated system should not get it
in that decision that emotional and sometimes eloquent appeals of the victims' families are often decisive
the right of victims to argue against parole has evolved into a responsibility to do so
n. p. r.'s robert siegel joins us shortly to discuss his report on parole in alabama
stay tuned
joining us now in the studio is n. p. r.'s robert siegel to discuss the report that we just heard on parole hearings in alabama
nice to see you robert
good to see you lynn
robert how typical is the alabama parole process
do most states still have these kinds of hearings where both families the families of the victims as well as the families of the inmates are present and testifying and
well most states have parole hearings before lay boards of people who have been appointed not judges
few states have a board with as much discretion as alabama still has and in fact when today's inmates the ones who are just being sentenced come up for parole ten years from now more of them will be coming up with sentences that limit parole in alabama
as for the victims this is a trend that's been growing throughout the country for the victims of crimes or in the case of murder the survivors of the victims to appear not only at parole hearings but also at sentencing hearings and to give victim impact statements
so the trend is away from the kind of discretion alabama's board has but toward more involvement of victims
it was so emotional
so much of that testimony
yes
was incredibly emotional i just wonder what the atmosphere is like after somebody has sort of
in one of these cases in the case of bernice burnett junior the first sibling to speak against him we didn't include that particular tape in the story broke down crying and left the hearing room
remarkably the chairman of the parole board went after her as the hearing continued and he saw his more important role at that moment john nettles to comfort her rather than to sit and listen to the next speech
this is not a trial it's a very informal hearing and whereas a trial seeks to apply the rational filter of the law to have a very regulated proceeding it can be a wildly emotional proceeding
i thought of it as sort of a folkloric criminal trial which is that if we had trials and we had no benefit of law or no rules restricting us or excluding statements or forcing decorum on us this is sort of what it might be like
this might be a trial
mm
what about inmates
i mean i think we have the impression from t. v. or movies that inmates get to plead their own case
states are different and typically if the parole hearings are held at the penitentiaries or at the correctional facilities then it's easy for the inmate to be there
in alabama nearly all of the hearings are held in montgomery at the state office building and so the only inmates who turn up are those who are on some leave program of whom there are quite a few
i think there were either two or three of the twenty cases that took place on the one day where we recorded everything where the inmate turned up because he or she happened to be on leave at that time and was free to come to montgomery otherwise they're not present
and i know some states are beginning to do away with parole
yes
altogether
what is the effect of that
why are they doing that and how does it affect things like overcrowding in prisons
there have been two movements against parole and they've come from sort of opposite ends of the political spectrum
one was that this is such an oddly idiosyncratic proceeding where the rules are so loose that sentences should be more fair so that people some people have a worse shot at parole than others and twenty years ago there was some limitation of parole and try to achieve uniform sentencing
more recently there's been a truth in sentencing movement which has limited parole because what typically happens is the judge and the prosecutor in the case say it's great you know we got twenty years and then seven years later the offender is paroled
and so there's a sentiment that sentences should be closer to what's actually pronounced
the difficulty there is the judges are unaccustomed to pronouncing the actual sentence and to say the actual sentence the person might serve is pretty painful for the a member of the bar who has to face the town and the family
when you ask about overcrowding in prisons what's really happened is all of the three strikes and you're out laws are someone said alabama's system has amounted to a four strikes and you're out law for several years now
new mandatory drug sentences all sorts of get tough provisions in the criminal law have just swelled the prison populations and so parole is one of the pressure points and in alabama i think the safety valve where you see lots of people getting out so that the system can afford to keep all the people who are being sentenced
well thanks very much
sure thank you
n. p. r.'s robert siegel
that's it for weekly edition
i'm lynn neary
join neal conan for the best of n. p. r. news
this is weekly edition i'm lynn neary filling in this week for neal conan
it seemed like a good idea at first and still does to many but the annual take our daughters to work day started four years ago by the ms. foundation is beginning to draw fire from some social critics
they say a day dedicated to girls is unfair to boys
even so this year's event seemed to be a big success as millions of young girls followed their mothers and fathers into offices and work sites all over the country this past week
but as n. p. r.'s margot adler reports the event could become a victim of its own popularity
at the ms. foundation's take our daughters to work luncheon yesterday the atmosphere was upbeat and corporate
there were a few well known feminists gloria steinem marlo thomas but most of the tables were filled with company representatives from places like merrill lynch and american express
jasmine victoria a fourteen year old girl defended the day passionately
giving girls more attention than they have received in the past does not mean ignoring boys it merely means giving girls the same attention and opportunities that boys have had for years
the ms. foundation created take our daughters to work day four years ago in response they said to research that young girls lose self esteem in adolescence that they feel judged by their appearance not their abilities
the ms. foundation's public service announcement which was played at the luncheon encapsulates these arguments in twenty seconds
you don't need perfect hair to be a neurosurgeon or large breasts to be a teacher
you don't need long lashes to cure aids or a flat stomach to be president
the accompanying pictures are of girls posing or clearly embarrassed about their bodies
then this
when did you realize this
when will your daughter
but as the day has incorporated more and more girls the protests have increased protests that the day discriminates against boys
joe manthay a school teacher and an activist for gender justice in petaluma california petitioned the county's forty school boards to either include boys and change the title or cancel the day and consider the absences as unexcused
most of the schools chose the latter
manthay says the day reinforces stereotypes
the claim is that if the girls go with the boys that the boys are going to dominate and once again the stereotype is that girls are sheep boys are brutes
it's also a violation of the nineteen fifty four landmark brown versus board of education supreme court ruling that found that separate but equal learning environments are inherently unequal
manthay also says women don't need a special boost up the ladder
they are the majority of students now going into med school as well as law schools
they make a majority of college students
they're twenty percent more likely to go on to college
they're more likely to graduate from college
the ms. foundation would be the first to admit that women are making huge strides in the workplace
the salary gap between men and women is closing fast particularly among younger workers but barbara finlan executive editor of ms. magazine says something still happens to girls during puberty that make many lose self confidence
for whatever reasons when boys and girls are in a group together adults tend to pay more attention to the boys in the group
girls also start to withdraw and boys tend to come to the forefront and that's exactly the sort of effect that having a separate day for girls is intended to address
shouldn't boys be in the workplace seeing women work
christina hauf summers is a professor of philosophy at clark university and the author of who stole feminism
i consider myself an equity feminist
i am an emancipated woman
i'm not arguing for anything except equality and there are many things about this holiday that seem to me to be reactionary
and if you look at the reasons the ms. foundation offers for excluding boys they are all it appears to me the majority are based on what i call advocacy research research that was done to prove that girls are victims rather than to find out what's really going on with kids
this debate is taking place inside and outside corporate america
some companies are including boys in the day's activities
others are having a special day for boys
melinda wolff is director of diversity strategy and programs at merrill lynch
she says for reasons of equity merrill lynch is doing a separate take your sons to work day in the fall
people are asking a lot of questions she says
but i think in general people support the idea that whether or not boys have their own separate set of issues that girls in fact do have self esteem issues and many have not benefited from the same kinds of discussions in their families about job opportunities and career opportunities
and so it's a good thing to do this as a separate event
and in response to the controversy and because it apparently received many requests to do something for sons the ms. foundation has lent its support to a sons' day
thank you for calling sons' day
sons' day in nineteen ninety six w. eight l. l. be on sunday october twentieth
for information
the number in north carolina is really a clearing house for ideas but already it's under fire october twentieth is a sunday not a work day
christina summers noted that one piece of literature she saw suggested that boys be taken to a center that deals with family violence
i couldn't help but sense that there was something rather punitive that they have to have it on the weekend and the idea that for boys they should visit a domestic violence center
that's the only reason that idea would occur to ms. is that again the advocates have exaggerated the problem out of all proportion and so now people think that the average little boy is a proto batterer
but george mckuen one of the organizers for sons' day says they are simply soliciting ideas and everything including what day to have it is open for discussion
the event will really kick off next year
as for why it was on a weekend
it's because we were looking at trying to do things with sons in the community sons in the family and having that whole array of activities that maybe boys aren't necessarily as involved in
joe manthay says he called up one of the organizers of sons' day
he told me that the purpose of boys' day is to help boys become more nurturing and sensitive and to teach them to change diapers
so i would call this day let's shame the boys day
but marie wilson the president of the ms. foundation says listen to what's really going on in this debate
it isn't shaming boys to talk about doing women's work
it's not valuing the work of women that is the heart of this controversy and what i feel proud of is we out ed it you know
we've taken the brunt of it but that's what happens when you out an important public private split in a society
in her view men are striving for a more balanced life where work is not everything
many are hungering to be fathers she says
the role of men the role of women the optimal mix of work and domesticity the debate over these large issues is at the root of the controversy that swirls around take our daughters to work day and the debate's intensity is partly because unlike many ideas to come out of the women's movement this one has gone mainstream and has become successful
i'm margot adler reporting
this is a nightline friday night special
it used to be oh look she has her mother's eyes her father's smile she could grow up to be president
her future was limitless
but now a miracle of modern medicine now she has her mother's gene for breast cancer her father's marker for heart disease
the brave new world of genetic testing do you really want to know
this is a. b. c. news nightline
reporting from washington ted koppel
people have always divided along all kinds of silly lines dog people cat people crust first pie first save before you buy buy now pay later some trivial some not so trivial
there is one line though that divides humanity into two clearly defined categories
this has nothing to do with race religion nationality gender or even sexual preference
the world is roughly divided into people who want to know and people who don't
if for example we could tell you never mind how when you were going to die to the day and for good measure how would you want to know
we're not prejudging mind you
there's a good case to be made for either
you might live your life more fully if you knew
you might on the other hand become so absorbed even obsessed by the knowledge that it could rob you of all enjoyment
the question is more germane to our lives now than it has ever been before
scientific explorers are daily filling in new blanks on our genetic maps
they are providing the tools with which our doctors are able to predict more and more of the diseases that await each of us
they can already do that with respect to many conditions and diseases for our unborn children raising a number of interesting and troubling moral issues
here's more from robert krulwich
sam is about what ten days old now
ten days old
ten days old
he weighs about seven pounds
kathy and john may brought sam home in august nineteen eighty nine
he was their first baby very beautiful but kathy had this feeling
i knew almost immediately that something was wrong with him within the first couple of weeks
he wouldn't cuddle wouldn't look her in the eye
he would bang his head and fling his body away from mine even as a very tiny infant
he would just thrust away
her friends said he's fine he's just your first baby but she thought no i don't know what it is but there's something not quite right with this child
one thousand miles away another family also had a problem just as mysterious but even scarier
this represents a lot of people
it sure it surely does
dr. henry lynch has made an extensive chart of this family
the black area filled in
and wherever he's put a black dot someone has died of cancer usually breast cancer and they died young
ovarian at forty nine breast at thirty eight and then you can see it going from one generation to the next we have breast at thirty two breast at thirty five
they were literally dropping like flies
no one in the family could know who would get breast cancer but with the incidence so high phyllis and her sister who asked to be disguised for fear of being dropped by her insurance company both sisters had their breasts removed without knowing if they had the disease
every time somebody was diagnosed we were just we just became more and more scared
and there's no guarantees with the surgery
yeah
and that's just small stuff
the big thing is are you going to still get cancer
are you going to die from it
then in a burst of discovery in the last five years
we're here to answer your questions about this important scientific finding
scientists learned what is wrong with phyllis's family and what is wrong with little sam
each family has a disease that comes from a defective gene
these illnesses are not accidents they are passed from parents to children
in sam's case the disease is called fragile x. a leading cause of mental retardation in children
sam will not get better
but when sam was two researchers discovered a fragile x. gene and developed a test so the condition can now be predicted during pregnancy and there are more and more such tests
and in some ways that's encouraging exciting here is gene discovery moving into clinical practice and in other ways it's very scary
do we really know enough to begin to offer this kind of test to people
do we know what the benefits and risks are
for kathy a fragile x. diagnosis was oddly a relief
because you always wonder am i just not a good enough mom did i drink a glass of wine that i forgot about during my pregnancy did i you know tumble and not remember when i went skiing
so instead of blaming myself then i felt relief that this was out of my hands out of my control
but genetic tests can be emotionally very difficult
for example the two sisters in our other family learned that they too could take a test for early onset family breast cancer
each sister could learn if she was high risk had an eighty five percent chance of getting cancer or not and both wanted to know
we had to have i had to have it
i had to have it
phyllis and two sisters and a brother chose to hear their results together with their spouses at this hotel
i was the first one and probably because i was the oldest they handed me a piece of paper with the information on it
phyllis got good news
her gene was normal
but she could barely take it in
and immediately as soon as the words registered with me i could see my other siblings sitting across the room and i was just i thought oh my god it's going to be one of them
it doesn't work that way
what happens to one person does not affect the others' odds
and i just it it i immediately just felt this horrible crush that it could be one of my siblings
but people who escape a disease often feel they must have done something extra
and they should have somehow been able to tell their siblings how to evade it too and they didn't
i mean none of this makes particularly logical genetic sense but it's a very common psychological reaction and it means that the people who get good news need help too
phyllis's brother and the other sister also got good news
and then your turn
and then mine
yeah that kind of kind of wrecked the party
this time the news was bad and she heard it
oh yeah i heard it
it was was very upsetting
for some siblings this moment is a crossroad a divide
siblings who have for ten or fifteen years shared together this sense of being at risk for a disease that they know is running in their family that's part of their bond that's part of how they relate to each other
and then they go in and they're tested
does the one who's escaped the risk sort of feel like oh i don't know if she even wants to talk to me
can the one who's now at risk really think does that person understand me anymore
test results can create all kinds of wounds and difficulties
i was angry with sam for doing this to me
i felt like why are you doing this to me i wanted the best soccer player i wanted the handsomest boy in the class i wanted i wanted i wanted and i was angry with him at first
and then it passed but the questions keep coming
should you tell an aging parent that she once passed on a disease
do you tell a child that he will get a disease
if a doctor knows a test result should you
these new genetic tests can tell us all kinds of news about our future but in the end the real question is do you want to know
when you got married how big a family were you planning to have
i think we just wanted two children at that time pretty much the norm for today's society but that's kind of what we had in mind
but when sam came along kathy discovered she carried a gene for a disease called fragile x. which is why sam is mentally retarded
it also means every time she has a baby the chances are fifty to fifty it could happen again
those are the official odds
is that what your heart tells you
number
you think this can't possibly happen again
i'm really i've been a good girl you know and there's no way i'm going to be punished again here
so does that hunch lead you to a decision
yes
we decided to try because how can this happen again
kathy is having an experience that is brand new
generations of moms have known that there was something wrong in their families but they didn't know if they carried the disease or if they would pass it on
but now with the test kathy knows she knows the risk which makes the question should i have a baby a little tougher
and the same goes for our other family with breast cancer
when phyllis's sister who asked to be disguised when she was told that she had the bad gene
my husband and i decided we would not have a third child and that was that was the plan going into it if you're a carrier we won't have that third child
we have two boys that's good that's a good thing
but then her attitude changed
i kind of felt i got screwed out of my third child and i was kind of angry about that
i was real angry about that
and i was getting older i was running out of time
i would have to have my ovaries out now because i am definitely a carrier
we soul searched over that for a long time and decided to have a third child
those are incredibly difficult issues
i guess the goal in trying to help people decide is to help them think through all the possible outcomes
kathy got pregnant
she waited ten weeks before her first examination and what was she thinking
oh i just didn't want to think
i never wanted to think that it could be bad news
i mean there was just no way i would let that enter in my mind
when i went in for the c. v. s. though the baby was extremely active in the womb was doing all kinds of somersaults and twists and turns and then i got scared because i thought oh gosh this baby looks hyperactive right now
it turned out the baby was fragile x. again
mostly we thought about it in terms of what it would do to our marriage and sam
it's a difficult decision no matter what
kathy terminated the pregnancy
and then she tried in vitro fertilization
we did try it twice and it failed both times
one time it was fragile x. and one time we actually did have one embryo that was a normal girl but the pregnancy didn't take
meanwhile the mom with the breast cancer gene was also trying to get pregnant and she was hoping for a boy because that way the gene would skip a generation and by that time when the boy had a child maybe there'd be a cure
my concern was am i going to be able to live with the guilt if this child's a girl
and is she going to be forgive me for bringing her into the world after i knew i was a carrier
and then i decided that i wasn't sorry my mother brought me into the world and i don't think kate will be sorry that i brought her into the world
it was hard when she was born
it was
and we we cried over that in the delivery room but i couldn't imagine life without her
when we come back some understanding and some science from one of the men who is drawing the map of human genes
joining us now from our philadelphia affiliate w. p. v. i. dr. francis collins is the director of the national center for human genome research a program that hopes to map out human d. n. a. by the year two thousand five
i have to ask you and i have to assume you're someone who wants to know in your own case your own family's case
i wouldn't make that assumption ted actually
i think many of us don't know until that moment of decision comes and somebody lays out in front of us the pros and cons and then we still have to wrestle with it
i don't know in reality what i would do in the situations faced by those individuals you just showed that very impressive film from
i must say that makes this next question a little bit easier because it makes me assume then that there must be nights when you when you lie there staring at the ceiling saying am i doing the right thing
i think there are
i think the power of genetic information is extremely impressive and yet if you're someone who believes that one of the major mandates of the human race is to alleviate suffering it's hard not to be in favor of genetic research
it holds within it the seeds of hope for so many people who suffer from currently incurable diseases and therefore it's hard to see how ethically we can't do this
we have to
but the information can be used for good or evil and it's also our responsibility to try to be sure that we maximize the benefits and minimize the risks and that does keep me awake at night
i'm just wondering to what degree people in other parts of our society have already begun to think about the consequences of what you're doing
for example we heard in the one case of the of the mother who decided to terminate a couple of pregnancies apparently because of what she knew
i would imagine that the catholic church would would be dramatically opposed at least to the ending of the life
have you found that there's been any opposition from the church for example to the finding of the information that might lead so many people to make that kind of a decision
oh i think many people are concerned about the limits of prenatal diagnosis and what it will be used for
i'm a person of faith myself
i confess that this issue is one of the more troubling ones
in our current society we have we have decided that terminating a pregnancy under these circumstances is something which legally is allowable and yet i think people wonder where are the limits
is it okay to terminate a pregnancy because the child is the wrong sex
i think most of us recoil at that idea
and where are we going to try to draw that boundary line
that's a very tough issue and one which we as a culture haven't really come to grips with yet
and there's a whole other area here which has to do with if you as my doctor know and i know and my wife knows and perhaps even our other children know once that knowledge is out there inevitably other people are going to know
future employers will know the military will know my insurance company will know and i know you've given a lot of thought to the consequences of that knowledge becoming available in all those other areas
talk about that for a moment would you
i think that's a very major issue
the most rapidly growing area of genetic testing is actually where you test yourself to find out what your future risk of illness is going to be and that has enormous potential to benefit people because it allows you to practice the kind of preventive medicine that we've only dreamed of where you can focus on the things that you're specifically at risk for instead of having everybody do the same thing which hasn't been all that successful
so there's the positives
but suppose just at the time that you learn that your risk of colon cancer is increased and you get ready to take advantage of colonoscopy every year in order to catch that polyp while it's still small and easily treated that you get a phone call from your insurance company saying we found this out too and i'm sorry you're not covered anymore losing your health insurance can be a lethal event and if you accept the idea that genetic information is not something you get to choose then i think it would trouble most people to have it used against them in this way
that seems unjust
and there's also another category
you talk about being able to get a colonoscopy which indeed can result in your finding out something early on so that you can do something about it
what if in this self testing you find that you have a disease which is incurable where where there simply is no hope on the horizon
you may have it for the next ten or fifteen years and knowing that you have it can put you into a deep depression it it may cause you to withdraw from society altogether
what do you do about that
no one should go through this kind of experience without first having a chance to learn what the tests can do what kind of condition is being tested for and what treatments are available
i think most people will be interested in tests for conditions where there are things they can do to reduce their risk and i think most people will not be so interested in things where it's just dropped in your lap and there's nothing you can do to change that outcome
i think most people
no but i mean the reason
will say no thank you
the reason i'm asking dr. collins is to the degree that we're able to test ourselves we may start finding out things we had not anticipated
well again i think testing should only be done in a context where people are educated about the limits of the test before they have it so that when you have a test for a particular condition somebody says well i'm sorry right now there's nothing we can do about this testing has to be voluntary
there's got to be a lot of attention to informed consent
one of the great concerns many of us have is that this testing will move too quickly into clinical practice and we'll lose those sorts of controls
patients really can't sort of have this done just because their physician thought it was a good thing for them that day
they have to understand the pros and cons before they consent to it
are you satisfied that that congress fully appreciates you know what is what is being unloaded on them here
because it's going to call for all kinds of new legislation isn't it
it is going to call for a significant amount of legislation and i'm actually quite gratified to see what's happened in the last twelve months in the congress on this topic for the first time
there are bills in both the house and the senate that indicate that genetic information should not be used to deny people health insurance
that's never happened before
that's great
it's not a perfect solution and none of those bills have been signed by the president but compared to where we were a year ago we're coming along very quickly
privacy is another big issue
who finds out your genetic information who controls who can peek into your medical records we have a real problem there and again there is legislative attention being paid to that but none of it has actually made it over the line and we i think as the american public need to speak to our elected representatives about that
we're not in a crisis yet
genetic testing has so far only been experienced by a limited number of individuals but we all have glitches in our d. n. a. ted
we i do you do probably four or five genes that are pretty fouled up and we're going to have the opportunity to find that out pretty soon and if that's going to get used against us who's going to be left insurable whose privacy is going to be safe
we have to act now and we shouldn't have to wait for a crisis on this one we ought to be able to take the right steps and put those protections in place
dr. collins very thought provoking
thank you very much for being with us this evening
thank you very much ted
i'll be back in a moment
and that's our report for tonight
i'm ted koppel in washington
for all of us here at a. b. c. news good night
on world news tonight cease fire in the middle east
israel and the party of god in lebanon pledge not to target civilians a militia group in georgia they are accused of planning to make bombs and the president as witness
mr. clinton prepares for his televised testimony in the whitewater case
from a. b. c. this is world news tonight with peter jennings
good evening
we begin overseas tonight where american diplomacy has led to the end of fighting between israel and the islamic party of god in lebanon
after sixteen days of war which devastated parts of southern lebanon and caused many civilians to die the israelis and the hezbollah guerrillas have agreed that however their struggle continues it is time to take civilians out of the equation
first with the deal to end the fighting here's a. b. c.'s david ensor
it took seven days of ceaseless shuffling by secretary of state christopher between jerusalem and damascus to produce a page and a half long agreement in writing but not signed
it has four key points armed groups in lebanon wil not carry out attacks into israel israel and its allies in lebanon will not fire on civilians or civilian targets
in the past two weeks more than a hundred civilians have died all of them in lebanon
both sides say they will not use civilian populated areas as launching grounds for attacks as the u. n. says hezbollah has done
finally a statement that each party retains its right of self defense
in practical terms the agreement isn't much different from the verbal agreement reached by the same parties back in nineteen ninety three
it does nothing to stop hezbollah guerrillas and israeli soldiers from firing on one another in south lebanon
and syria made no promise to stop the flow of kaytusha rockets from iran through syria to hezbollah
compliance by hezbollah will depend heavily on syrian president assad who has thirty five thousand troops in lebanon
he said he thought the chances of a violation was remote and that was his word
exhausted american diplomats are relieved to have an agreement but dismayed at how much effort it took
imagine one official said what it will take to negotiate real peace between israel syria and lebanon
david ensor a. b. c. news jerusalem
there was relief in both israel and lebanon today and there was skepticism even cynicism
we have reports from both sides of the border beginning with a. b. c.'s richard gizbert in south lebanon
right up to the cease fire announcement and after they were still fighting inflicting more damage on a country that can hardly afford it
thousands of refugees will return home in the morning to find their houses destroyed
getting there will be a challenge because the israeli military has bombed so many roads
israeli jets have destroyed reservoirs and power plants
clean water and electricity will be in short supply
repairing power stations near beirut could take a year and a half
a city that was finally getting on its feet after a civil war is once again dependent on gas generators for electricity
lebanon estimates three hundred million dollars in damages and predicts a fifty percent cut in economic growth because of the fighting
but this conflict will ultimately be remembered for the toll it took on people the refugees and those who died seeking shelter at a united nations camp called qana
richard gizbert a. b. c. news south lebanon
this is bill redeker in northern israel where a dozen residents of the border town of kiryat shimona learned of the cease fire as they huddled in an underground shelter
as the announcement was being made four rockets landed outside damaging a house badly rattling nerves
a factory was hit for the second time in two days
tonight i'm going to stay in the shelter
and tomorrow night and the day after
i'm going to stay here till i be convinced that the hezbollah keep the agreement
for prime minister shimon peres who faces a tough challenge at the polls next month the cease fire and the sixteen day blitz which resulted in no israeli casualties was a political windfall
the overall perception of the past two weeks may have been a cumulative perception that mr. peres is tough when he needs to be tough
the most recent public opinion poll seemed to support that
peres has now pulled ahead of challenger benjamin netanyahu by five percentage points
bill redeker a. b. c. news in northern israel
the other news in just a minute
the california six year old accused of attempted murder
he had threatened to kill the baby before the attack one tenth of the world's population goes to the polls
they are going to begin voting in india and our person of the week poetry or profanity
in california again today the six year old charged with attempted murder
the case has sent chills through virtually everyone who has heard about it
a child accused of trying to kill a four week old baby and now the prosecutor says it was not a spur of the moment act
here's a. b. c.'s brian rooney
sitting between his mother and his lawyer the six year old's feet dangled about a foot from the floor
in a brief hearing the child protective services were ordered to find an appropriate place to lock up the boy after the prosecutor said this young man as young as he is is dangerous
the baby was beaten
he was kicked in the head
he was hit in the head
and he was hit with a one by one wooden stick
the boy showed little emotion during the proceedings only occasionally looking at his mother
his lawyer described him as a tiny munchkin
well i would like to see obviously some therapeutic environment happening for my client
clearly the family wants that too
if the boy is found to know the difference between right and wrong and the court convicts him of attempted murder he could be held in a juvenile jail or treatment center until age twenty five
someone this young who engages in such gratuitous violence might very well have some significant neurological problems
and the appropriate intervention of the state is treatment not punishment
the generally accepted age of reason is seven but the prosecutor in this case says he can prove the six year old knew right from wrong
as i said in court this morning he made a statement before the commission of the events that he didn't like the way the folks who were living in that house were looking at him and he wanted to kill the baby
that's what he said
all sides agree that the system is not equipped to deal with a violent child this young and that the first of many difficult decisions will be simply where to hold him now until the court decides what to do with him later
brian rooney a. b. c. news san francisco
one of the most disturbing things about this brutal attack is that the crime appears not to be unique
in fact there is evidence of more and more violence being perpetrated by younger and younger children
a. b. c.'s aaron brown on a troubling trend
eric smith beat a four year old neighbor to death
he was thirteen at the time
he turned to me and he said mom i did it and at that point one lost control
in eric's case and in most cases like it there are clear danger signs very early on
and eric showed them all cruelty to animals frequent uncontrolled tantrums aggressive even violent behavior especially towards younger children
something went terribly wrong and i don't know why and i might not ever know why
generally a troubled child comes from a troubled home
parents often understand the trouble in the child but fail to recognize how they contribute to it
whether they are willing to do something about an unhealthy relationship i think is another question
that takes a lot of courage and a lot of strength
and both strength and courage may be missing in a parent who not so long ago may have been a troubled child as well
often the parents themselves have been subjected to violent or terrible or neglectful experiences
and they themselves are maybe unable to participate without some pressure from society to do so
many people who work with children believe that pressure doesn't come nearly often enough that communities like parents fail to act when the signs of trouble are clear
never to assume that a child is just going through a phase that the child will outgrow whatever phase this is but to recognize these as serious signs that indeed may persist and may lead to extremely serious consequences
in most cases dr. janssen believes the child can be saved
the tragedy is that too often no one does enough early enough to make a difference
aaron brown a. b. c. news new york
violent children will be the subject on twenty twenty later this evening because they do on occasion become violent adults
in california today there's another fatal showdown near the mexican border
acting on a tip the border patrol tried to pull over a van packed with at least twenty people
the driver of the van braked swerved into the police car
they ran off the road and flipped over
at least two people are dead and nineteen were hospitalized
two men arrested with all the makings of pipe bombs right after this
in georgia today federal agents have arrested two men who they say are members of a militia group planning to make bombs
here's a. b. c.'s mark potter
federal agents searched two properties in a remote area west of macon georgia and found chemicals and other materials that they say were to be used this weekend to make pipe bombs
the property owners william mcgrainey and robert starr are being held without bond
one of starr's neighbors said he was a militia supporter
we had heard we'd seen him in central georgia on t. v. and on radio defending the militia saying that the militia has been getting a bad rap since the oklahoma bombing
the case caused a bit of a sensation because the olympics are being held this summer in nearby atlanta
but federal officials deny any link
court documents say an informer told agents the men talked about shooting law enforcement officials
they also allegedly wanted the pipe bombs for themselves and others to in their words protect their rights against the invasion of the government
mark potter a. b. c. news macon georgia
the seat of government today at the white house president clinton spent some time getting ready for a weekend he cannot be looking forward to particularly
on sunday he's going to testify in the trial of his former partners in the whitewater land deal
he is not on trial himself but the president is well aware that whatever he says could be damaging to him politically
here's a. b. c.'s jackie judd
the spectacle begins
jim and susan mcdougal arrived in washington today with plans to be at the white house as is their right when president clinton testifies for their defense
what are you going to say to the president when you see him
good afternoon mr. president
this is a tricky operation for the white house which got itself into this fix when it asked for videotaped testimony rather than an appearance by the president in the courtroom where there are no cameras
the first priority is to protect the privacy of the event on sunday which will be put up on satellite so it can be monitored by a judge in little rock
the white house will scramble the satellite picture so no one else can pull it down and see it
the larger problem for the administration comes after the jury is shown the president's testimony
mr. clinton wants only a transcript not the tape to be released
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony but that it shouldn't be abused in any way
mr. clinton fears that his political opponents would use the tape against him that the image of the president being sworn in testifying in a criminal trial would be damaging
richard beckler cross examined former president reagan on videotape in an iran contra trial
anybody who wants to manipulate that the press or partisans whomever who want to manipulate that tape can do so by just focusing on something that was not very good
the judge ultimately will decide whether the tape is released
in any case the jury won't see any of this extraordinary event for several more weeks until the defense begins presenting its case
jackie judd a. b. c. news washington
on wall street today the dow jones industrials gained a point to close at five thousand five hundred sixty seven
on the nasdaq market stocks gained more than two points
it was the last day to buy a piece of the kennedy mystique
the prices continued to be astronomical
a charcoal sketch of the former first lady went for one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
another of president kennedy's rocking chairs went for four hundred ten thousand dollars
the total for the family in the four day sale more than thirty four million dollars
the vote that could change the lives of nearly one billion people
the election in india in a moment
we go overseas again tonight to get a hint of what it is like when the world's largest democracy has an election
this is important not to mention interesting for americans because india dominates its part of the world and for the first time since india won its independence from britain in nineteen forty seven the most privileged political class in the country may lose its dominant position
the vote is going to go on for almost a couple of weeks
but tonight a. b. c.'s mark litke reports on just what it takes to hold an election when almost six hundred million people want to participate
the writer mark twain described india as a land of one hundred nations one hundred tongues a thousand religions and two million gods one century later it seems only a slight exaggeration especially during an indian election
five hundred ninety million eligible voters choosing from fifteen thousand candidates a political menagerie of aging bosses and ageless movie stars hindu holy men and the less spiritual
one popular candidate is a convicted murderer
they map their campaigns across vast deserts by helicopter through jungles by canoe reaching the masses by lowly rickshaws and automobile headlights
nobody but nobody in the world conducts elections of this magnitude
election commissioner t. n. seshan is responsible for ensuring the vote is free fair and on time
he oversees five million civil servants who will man eight hundred thousand polling booths
just getting the ballots and ballot boxes delivered is a mammoth task requiring all means available
the election commission also approves the symbols for each party that appear on the ballot
half of all indians can't read but they can vote for the hand the wheel the lotus and the eggplant any symbol except small animals banned this time because of problems in the past
in one election the two opposing political parties brought each of the symbols onto the stage and wrung their necks in front of the audience and said this is what we will do to the opposition
today only large animals are allowed
this is still a fractious democracy plagued by crushing poverty communal violence and rampant corruption but rich or poor hindu muslim or sikh indians take their right to vote very seriously
even with all the obstacles they face voter turnout is usually seventy percent or more
retired army colonel jadish anan hasn't missed one election since independence
voting he says is more than just a right
i feel that it is a sacred duty to your country
tomorrow the colonel and his wife will perform that duty again
they along with millions of others will do so with pride and the conviction that in the world's largest democracy their vote counts
mark litke a. b. c. news new delhi
one other item overseas
in ukraine today the tenth anniversary
at a service near the chernobyl nuclear plant ukrainians held a service for the people who died after the explosion of reactor four
they lit candles at one twenty four a. m. the same moment of the accident
this is our holy night said a survivor who was on duty at the plant when the blast occurred a night for remembrance
we'll have our person of the week right after this
finally this evening our person of the week
the person we've chosen this week has tried to unlock the power of words in her students
but her efforts have alarmed her employers
we've chosen her because her struggle brings out challenging arguments on both sides of a very difficult question
different students communicate differently
everyone doesn't communicate the same way
cecilia lacks has been an educator for twenty five of her fifty years
she was once regarded as one of the fifteen best teachers in the country
a saint louis school board is not interested in that and they are no longer interested in ms. lacks
they fired her for something her students had to say
i don't teach profanity
i don't have any interest in profanity
i don't have any interest in cliches or slang
but her students certainly do
this is berkeley senior high in a suburb of saint louis
a lot of inner city kids go to this school
they come from rough and tough neighborhoods and they know all about rough and tough language
they've heard it in the streets and they hear it in their music
cecilia lacks allowed them to use that language in her creative writing class
we're creating characters so they choose language appropriate to those characters
ms. lacks videotaped the students as they read their dialogue
and what they said we cannot put on the air
suffice to say the characters her students created used very rough language
and ms. lacks said there was nothing wrong with that
when they're writing about people their age they're writing language that is used on the street it's street language
it's not profanity
it's not meant to offend anybody
well it did
one of cecilia lacks's students took the tape to the principal and the school board fired her
frank sussman is the school board lawyer
there is constant clamor from parents for school boards to instill values
and this is what they were doing
i haven't heard any parents come and complain to this board we want our kids we want our students to be able to curse and to use profanity in the classroom
ms. lacks doesn't want people using bad language in her class as a matter of course and admits she would suspend students who use language like this in other circumstances
but she says it's important to give them some leeway as a way to teach so that they will get ahead
that method says especially in creative writing that a student should start where he or she is and you work with that student from that point and hopefully get that student to another point of expression
the whole play was about what you deal with in everyday life
and that's something i and the rest of my group dealt with in every day life was mostly profanity
what cecilia lacks's students have moved on because they learned to express themselves in her class
one young man who first wrote only about a neighborhood pimp now writes about love with language that can be used in polite company
her students are certainly on ms. lacks's side
a teacher is being punished her for allowing profanity when we as a community allow it all around us every day
she cared
she taught
she got involved
and this week other people got involved in the cause of cecilia lacks who is going to court to get her job back
the battle to safeguard freedom of speech has its casualties in this country too
the international writers' group pen which fights so hard for freedom of expression is supporting the teacher who refused to censor her students
and last night she was given the pen organization's first amendment award
she is grateful she says but she would still prefer to be back in her class
if teachers start deciding that they should be the ones to tell students what to write we're not having education we're having indoctrination
and i don't think anybody would want that
and so we choose cecilia lacks who raises a troubling question larger than her own case
i have heard teachers tell me she says that now they're afraid to teach that is something we hope passes
that's also our report on world news tonight
i'm peter jennings
have a good weekend
we'll see you on monday
good night
a. t. m. charges and port charges
stopping off for quick cash at the a. t. m. could not be more convenient
americans use a. t. m.'s nearly ten billion times a year but will they pay higher fees for the privilege
banks are banking on it but some lawmakers say don't count on it
the new a. t. m. fees charged by banks that own a. t. m.'s are i think simply outrageous
in my view the practice should be prohibited by statutes by this committee
your bank may not be the only one taking you for a ride
a class action suit filed this week accuses the seven major u. s. cruise lines of using inflated port charges to defraud passengers
shipping tycoon aristotle onassis gave this forty carat ring to jacqueline kennedy
now it's going going gone to the highest bidder in the auction of camelot
today on burden of proof being held up at the a. t. m. getting soaked by cruise ships and the legal rules of the bidding game
this is burden of proof with roger cossack and greta van susteren
welcome to burden of proof
in the last ten years the number of automatic teller machines has doubled
last year u. s. banks made forty eight billion dollars in profits but say they don't make much money from a. t. m.'s
now many banks want to charge you maybe even charge you twice to use a. t. m.'s
mike if the banks made forty eight billion dollars last year why do they want to charge me twice just so i can get my own money that they're making money off of so i can get a little of it out
not that there's much there but why charge me twice
well roger you have to understand that so much has changed in the banking industry with the delivery system called the a. t. m. machine
most of the machines today as people expected were introduced to the system by banks but today approximately thirty percent of the machines available are owned by nonbanking institutions people entering the marketplace buying those machines renting space
we see them all over today in hotels in airports and in convenience stores
we're making them more accessible for the convenience and services that the customers really enjoy
ed tell me this
i mean you know i don't want to pay any more money every time i draw money out of my limited account but why don't banks have a right to make money
i mean this is a free enterprise and if they want to charge two dollars or one dollar and fifty cents or whatever don't they have a right to
well i'm a taxpayer besides being a consumer advocates
i don't want the banks to fail but the banks are gouging consumers
three years ago five years ago they had about ninety different fees
today they've got over two hundred fifty different fees
when i use the other a. t. m. machine from another bank
my bank pays them a fee as part of the money i pay my own bank
now that other bank wants to charge me another fee so they're charging me twice to use the a. t. m. once
but isn't that their privilege
they're in the business to make money this is a free market
the banks are not in the free market
banks are taxpayer guaranteed and they're taxpayer subsidized with a whole array of services that they get that nobody else gets
we feel as consumer advocates that it's really up to the congress to decide on public policy
and charging you twice is just unfair
mike
well i certainly disagree with the philosophy that the fees the number of fees we have expanded number of fees but we also have expanded number of products and services today
we're offering more products and services than ever before and we're certainly subsidized by the federal government as ed would have us believe
we work on our own profitability providing those products services and technical expertise to the marketplace so that if a consumer wherever they travel and by the way let's correct something here
eight seven percent of america's banks do not charge the customer for using their own bank's a. t. m. machines and that situation is not going to change with the introduction of this type of new service charge at the point of sale where you use someone else's machine that could be a bank's machine a competing bank by the way or it could be a vendor providing that service
you have the right to choose and decide
you know how much the service charges are from your own institution
you receive those the day you open your account
you will be advised by a screen on the a. t. m. that will tell you there will be a fee imposed by this particular institution or company
but it doesn't say how much
i tell you you know mike i've used these machines
i have no clue when i'm using it first of all whose it is
i mean there's so many different banks and different private industries but then i don't have a clue how much they're charging
they just say well you may be charged a fee
well how much is it
well greta you don't have to be concerned about that because when you approach the machine and you try the transaction a screen will come up
and by the way fifteen states in the united states already have this in place
we in the banking industry think it's good sound business practice to tell the customer before they do the transaction how much that fee will be
mike let me ask you something
if i go to a teller inside one of your banks and i ask for a withdrawal or i make a deposit you're not going to charge me anything for that are you
there are banks by the way we've seen the publicity that try to do that and certainly each bank we have ten thousand banks in the united states will decide on what to charge for what prices
so the answer probably is is that if i just walk into a teller probably i'm not going to be charged for depositing money in a bank
isn't that right
there's not a teller charge but you will have fees in accordance with the deposit type of account that you open
but when you go through an a. t. m. transaction you're looking for the safety and convenience
it's because of that a. t. m. and because of all the customers that we have that people don't have to think about the alternative of carrying large amounts of cash trying to cash a check in a foreign area using a draw down on your credit card far more expensive alternatives less than a call home
ed let me ask you this
why not if this is getting out of hand like you contend i mean wherever you go you get nickeled and dimed by these banks that are making billions of dollars
what about if we had a national boycott on these a. t. m.'s
do you think we'd convince the banks
well we're thinking about it greta and let me tell you why
because it's not only these remote locations it's not only these other places these other owners in casinos it is the big banks and the big banks are trying to put the little banks and the credit unions out of business by surcharging so that everybody will stop going to their own local bank and give up and say i give up
i'm going to go to the big bank which will have it their way and i'll have no choice
now people still have to carry a lot of money and we're recommending to you that you take a lot of money out of the a. t. m. because then you're not going to pay as many of these fees
well excuse me ed but i really disagree with that
i would rather see the customer the consumer make their own decision
i for one don't choose to carry a lot of money because i know wherever i go in the country and in the world i have access to my bank account twenty four hours a day seven days a week
that is a very valuable convenience to me and i'd rather have that choice be mind as to whether or not i choose to pay a dollar less than that phone call home to get my cash any amount of cash that i feel i need at that point in time
david
thanks roger
there's analogy here that congress has acted on in the past
it used to be when you went to a pay phone you had to use the long distance company that that pay phone provider made you use
you're locked out of using other pay phone providers
congress acted and made it open so that you can use your phone company
now this isn't a market versus a regulation solution
this is just putting the pressure on when you choose a long distance company you know how much you're going to pay
and the pay phone provider has to negotiate with the telephone company a long distance provider
ed david says that if you know what you're getting into up front what's the problem
you don't know what you're getting into up front roger and here's the reason
if i make an account agreement with my bank that's when i should learn about my fees and those are the fees that i know about
but when i walk up to somebody else's
if you remember it
if you remember it
but then when i walk up to somebody else's a. t. m. machine i'm desperate for money they know they've got me
and even if it says do you want to pay a dollar how many people are going to say no
they can't find one of their own machines
ed excuse me again but that is so untrue
you know exactly
roger you're not going to leave a machine you've already stuck your card in
mike you got ten seconds
you know exactly how much it is it's a recurring fixed charge in most cases for your own bank if they're charging
again eighty seven percent of the time if you're using your own bank's machine which interstate banking has helped by the way you can cross states now and use your own bank's machines you would not be charged a fee
o. k. mike i've got to cut you off i'm sorry
thanks to michael griffin for joining us from new york
and when we come back we'll tell you about the class action lawsuit aiming to sink the practice of cruise ships of profiting from port charges
but first we want to update you on a story we reported yesterday the four week baby who was allegedly beaten by three small children
today that infant remains hospitalized in very critical condition and one of the children believed responsible a six year old child has been charged with attempted murder
we'll be right back
we are expecting the president to be live at twelve forty five in the white house briefing room to discuss the middle east peace treaty
when that occurs c. n. n. will take you right there
but before then when you take a cruise you shouldn't be taken for a ride
that's what lawyers say who have just filed a class action lawsuit against the seven major u. s. cruise lines
joining us by telephone is one of those lawyers oliver kippell
oliver what's happening with the cruise lines
have they been getting money from us unfairly
well we think they've been misleading the public when they charge them for what they call port charges or port taxes which looks to everyone as being governmental charges that must be paid because the ship is entering a particular port
in fact our investigation shows that these port charges or port taxes are not merely the charges the government levies but but they offer an opportunity for the cruise lines to make additional money
there are all sorts of additional charges which are not defined and which far exceed the actual charges paid to the port
oliver what is a port tax
there is such a thing isn't there
many ports have a tax which they levy either on a per passenger basis or on a per ship basis or on a per ton basis for docking at that particular port or coming within that particular port
those charges for the most part are a few dollars three dollars four dollars five dollars
there are a few cases where they are more than that
but that's what a port tax is
as you know we now have in some airports in the united states we have an airport usage fee that everybody pays
that's the kind of thing that's a port tax or a port charge and nobody would criticize the cruise lines for passing that on to the passengers
but what we find is that the port charges that they are levying in addition to the price of the cruise have no direct relationship to the charges levied by governmental authorities
so in other words what you're claiming is if i want to go on a cruise and the price is say it's one thousand dollars and they say we're going to charge you an additional sum of money which is a port tax some of it may go to the port tax others is just something another hidden cost to go on that cruise
is that correct
that's exactly correct
and we think it's misleading advertising
it's a deceptive practice
it suggests that there's no way to oppose or resist paying those charges because they have to be levied
and that's not the case as far as we can tell
stephen colwell who is in our san francisco bureau is there any problem with what oliver's telling us
well no i don't hear any problem
i haven't seen this actual case and so i don't know what the specific allegations are
but if you charge if you say the port fee is one hundred fifty dollars it turns out it's only a couple of dollars and let's say that the cruise or travel agency someone's skimming the additional funds is there a problem with that
oh yeah
i think that's one of the problems in travel in general is you really want to have full disclosure by the company of what the actual charges are
it's like when you rent a car and you get quoted one price and you show up and there's two or three extra charges that go on top of that that's deceptive
you should know what the final price is going to be
but when you say that it's deceptive is it illegal
certainly it can be illegal and i think that's probably what's being alleged in this particular case because of the consumer protection laws
ed you are involved in these kinds of consumer protection laws
is there something illegal against what they're doing in port taxes
well it may be an unfair act as he's pointed out
i think that we've seen this kind of thing though in other areas as car dealers who will often pack your contract with a lot of things
they'll charge you for things they don't provide
so if they give you a service they don't provide it should be unfair
you ought to have a cause of action
all right well we have a statement from the cruise industry and the cruise industry says this the cruise industry believes that the claims made in the recent lawsuits have no merit
for many years the cruise lines have included these port charges as part of their tariffs and have referred to them in their brochures
these ancillary charges relate to the wide variety of fees and costs associated with visiting the numerous ports of call on a cruise voyage
these fees may vary according to itinerary and are subject to change and we need to take a break
thanks to attorneys stephen colwell and oliver kippell
and now to reid collins
and the president
letters p. o. box seven hundred forty thousand one hundred sixty six atlanta g. a. three oh three seven four three five seven eight
fax four oh four six eight one three five seven eight
new york city has loosened the stranglehold organized crime had on the trash hauling industry a billion dollar a year business that the mob virtually monopolized for the past fifty years but no more as sean callebs reports
new york city has been called the saudi arabia of trash but until recently companies like u. s. a. waste the third largest operation in the nation were shut out of new york's billion dollar trash market
organized crime controlled it
there are always personal concerns coming into an industry that has had this taint if you will of organized crime and there still is but that is not a deterrent
we believe that the time for new york city to enter into an open competitive market is now
u. s. a. waste started operations in mid april
now the three largest u. s. haulers are working in new york
what changed
the manhattan district attorney's office is breaking the mob cartel
following a two year investigation seventeen people and twenty three companies are under indictment and nearly two hundred seventy million dollars in assets seized
well the city is open for business now and on a fair basis without having to worry about being intimidated without having to worry about extra charges
until the d. a.'s action organized crime leaders had split up the city's trash business
they decided who picked up the garbage and how much each customer paid
businesses say they were being gouged
the frustration was astronomical
they had no ability to control anything
they were assigned someone they were told what to do
all you could do was write that check out
bfi the nation's second largest solid waste removal company was the first firm to venture into new york
with ads like this bfi got a toehold in new york
businesses began to realize real change was taking place
there was somebody behind them in fact law enforcement that was going to back up their efforts and that they could think seriously and more comfortably about switching
something they couldn't do before that
businesses which had been overcharged a total of half a billion dollars a year began to see hauling rates fall by up to fifty percent and for the first time in nearly fifty years trash is no longer a dirty word in new york city
sean callebs c. n. n. financial news new york
very few people will face staggering jury awards like the forty three million dollar judgment against bernhard goetz the new york man who in nineteen eighty four shot four youths he said were trying to rob him on a subway
yet thousands of americans are being ordered by courts to pay money they don't have
in today's edition of your money fred katayama reports on some strategies for both the winners and losers of these legal battles
the cost of losing a civil suit can be devastating
it can shape the rest of your life in terms of reduced income and lost property
juries are increasingly generous
last year the average compensatory damage award was sixty five thousand dollars up nearly thirty percent from the previous year
so what do you do if you lose a civil case and find that you are liable for more than you can pay
the options are number one an appeal
if that won't work consider how you can legally transfer assets
you cannot fraudulently convey property
you can consider chapter seven or chapter thirteen bankruptcy but quite often that is not an available option if the action is or the judgment is based on an intentional act
on the other hand if you win in court what steps do you take to get the money that has been awarded
first thing you do is try to find out what property the defendant has
you find that some of that property may be exempt from attachment in aid of the execution
for example the defendant's home or some part of the home depending upon what state you are in
then you can attach the defendant's wages
of course laws differ from state to state
tactics have to be modified but lawyers on both sides say the jury award is just the beginning not the end of a very complicated process
that's your money fred katayama c. n. n. financial news new york
question what are those rising wheat prices along with other sky high commodity prices really mean for the inflation outlook
joining us now on friday morning fed watcher david jones chief economist for aubrey g. lanston and a regular on this program
david good morning
good to have you with us
good morning deborah
is there or is there not inflation out there
it's coming and let's start with those commodity prices
it's true that we have some interruptions to supply with drought and all the rest but the key is global demand
it's just beginning to build and if we look ahead to next year it may be that all the major economies in the world as well as a lot of emerging countries are moving up together
that means increasing demand and i think the quiet factor it's always hard to measure it but it's that building demand
it's not just wheat but it's oil and other basic industrial and agricultural commodities
i'm not talking about the nineteen seventies
don't get me wrong but i think the upward movement is there and it's only beginning
that commodity cycle is just getting started
there's a focus there tends to be a focus on the core rate of inflation
take out food and energy as if when those prices go up it's not really inflation
settle that score for me if you would
is it real inflation when gasoline and wheat prices go up or is it not
it's very simple deborah
we have to eat and drive cars
there's an old story about arthur burns former chairman of the federal reserve back in the seventies and as inflation began to build he kept asking the fed staff to take out more and more items and all of a sudden you couldn't live with the number of items that were out of the index so that burns could get a moderate price increase
the simple fact is particularly at this time that those usually volatile elements tell us a lot about where prices are going
the answer is leave them in the index and i'll make another bet with you
allen greenspan keeps them in the index when he decides that inflation is too high and he may have to start tightening policy pushing rates up to slow it down
we've had inflation at a roughly three percent annual rate in each of the last three or four years
actually five
five years of low inflation
that's right
all right what's your forecast
if we've got commodity prices rising where are we going to go
are we going to hit four percent in nineteen ninety six five percent in nineteen ninety seven
what's your number
slightly ahead of the gamester but moving in the right direction
this year nineteen ninety six for the first year we're going to move above that three percent barrier
that is not going to be favorably viewed at the fed
the fed was hoping inflation would come down another notch maybe to two percent from three percent this year
if we start pushing above three percent it will be a red flag to them
so i'm looking at maybe something in the three to three and a half percent range this year stuart on consumer prices and next year we'll be pushing that four percent level that you're talking about
now let's suppose that we build in the usual normal traditional inflation premium into bond yields
if you go to three and a half or four percent and you add on four basis points which is pretty much the rule of thumb these days you're looking at a long bond yield going up to seven and a half percent aren't you
you've made the forecast stuart
maybe i should interview you
no let's deborah let's have stuart do the forecast
no but actually that's true
you hit the nail precisely on the head
next year we're breaking above seven on thirty year treasury bond yields and it's because that inflation factor is picking up
one other point about this
the markets have remained so complacent on this
how many times have you heard analysts say inflation is dead
and when we were at those lows below six percent on thirty year treasury bond yields at the end of last year the big story it was dead sic
i'm here today to say it isn't
doesn't the global economy cut down inflation though
i mean your competition you don't know who it is
it could be low cost producer anywhere on the planet
that cuts down on inflation
it's not going to be as much stuart
that will limit how much we go up
but the point is we're going to move at least a point higher as we go over the course of this year to next and the direction is higher
not as high as in the seventies not a double digit rate of inflation but it's moving higher
we're out of time but this is a behavioral science
inflation isn't really a problem until it starts to affect people's behavior their economic decisions
any sign that that's happening
no absolutely none and that will be another limiting factor deborah
consumers are still very price sensitive but look at some areas
airlines are starting to effectively raise prices
their profits are up from that
you'll see more of that so consumers will end up accepting a little bit more inflation
business day economist david jones
always a pleasure
thank you
the second biggest merger in corporate history was announced this week
it was in fact the biggest ever in the telecommunications industry
but while bell atlantic and nynex talked about getting together to create a telecommunications giant they may lose ground against other companies in the fast growing industry
here to explain why he thinks so is our business day contributor and newsweek's wall street editor allan sloan
allan good to have you back
my pleasure
o. k. so what is wrong with this deal
well i didn't say there was anything wrong with it
but
but life is more complicated than it seems to be because anybody can sit down on a piece of paper and say this is my wonderful strategic plan and i'm going to do a b. c. and d. then someone actually has to do it and when you are dealing with a company like this new bell atlantic will be it may be a little more complicated than they think
what are you talking about specifically
well for starters they are combining the headquarters of bell atlantic and nynex and firing half the people
ouch
well that is their problem luckily not my problem because i don't work there
so for at least a year you've got to worry about filing all the paper and getting this deal done and all the approvals and then after that people have to figure out where the men's rooms and ladies' rooms are in the headquarters and who is reporting to whom
life is a little complicated
how long does it take
does anybody really have a good sense of how long it takes for companies to really assimilate and for people to get over that nervousness about whether they are going to lose their job or like their new boss or whatever and get back down to work
well i think it depends really on the circumstances
here i think maybe out in the field where the phones actually are it won't take that long because that is going to stay pretty much the way it is
in headquarters god only knows how long it is going to take
you're talking about the actual process of merging bringing the two teams together to pull as one so to speak but my question is are you saying that this is such a problem that it is going to hurt profitability and maybe the positioning in the industry of this newly merged company
well i think it will hurt at least for awhile the position in the industry because the world is changing like mad in telecommunications
a friend of mine who is involved in it says that a year in the phone business is like dog years
that doesn't mean that you slobber and whine but he says the first year is like fifteen people years and for at least a year you've got to figure there is going to be a certain amount of confusion and chaos and the world will pass these guys by a little bit which it might not do if they were separate
that's all i'm saying
do you think there is room here for more smaller companies
upstarts maybe more nimble without facing that don't have to face this problem of merging with a giant
are they the frontrunners of the future perhaps
well they are going to take a little piece of everything
i don't think any of them will ever be the size of this thing what do they call it new bell atlantic or n. b. a. it is the league it does three point shots
but they get to get bigger pieces i think than people expect
though how big i don't know
well what kind of companies are we talking about here
i mean i'm talking about smaller upstarts
right well there is a company called m. f. s. which i'm not trying to hype their stock fellas you know but they do all the communications things
there is another company called i believe teleport that does various things
there are all these companies that most of us have never heard of unless you know you drop the quarter in the phone and gotten some funny recording that are going for pieces of the action especially around here in new york and new jersey
would you go so far allan briefly as to say maybe this deal shouldn't have been done
i don't know
these are questions too mighty for the mind of sloan
but you're not euphoric about where it is going in the immediate year or so in the future
well i never am
you're not that's true
allan sloan see you next week i trust
i hope so
bring your daughter to work day does a special day in the office for little girls really give them a leg up or could it send the message girls are so handicapped by being girls they need the special attention
and what about a bring your son to work day
millions of little girls headed to work yesterday with their mother or their father
it was bring your daughter to work day the four year old brain child of feminists who want to improve girls' self esteem
but one day a year
can that really do that
and if it's good for little girls to see women in the workplace why not good for little boys to see that same thing
some mothers and fathers apparently think it would be good
a large number of them brought their sons to work on daughters day
so how do we give our children wings
is bring your daughter to work day the way to do it for little girls
in a world where women are generally still paid and promoted less highly than men what is one day a year going to accomplish
and why not include boys too bring your son to work day
here to talk about all of that dr. ruth westheimer who has a keen appreciation of the differences between boys and girls
and allen creighton is with the oakland men's project in oakland california
we hope to have janet parshall joining us shortly
she hosts a radio talk show in washington d. c. and got caught in traffic but she's on her way
let's start out dr. ruth by both and you and allen staking out your turf
what do you make of bring your daughters to work day
good idea bad idea or totally beside the point
number
mary i'll tell you something
not a bad idea but an idea that we have to now change
an idea whose time has past
yes
as of today and that's why i very glad that we are talking about this for next year there has to be
allen you think it's you say you call it a great idea
yes i think it's
why
a wonderful idea
not old in the least just beginning
i think what's important here is that boys every day hear that we're expected that we're going to go into the workplace get careers and be in charge and girls every day don't get that message
so one day in the year is a great beginning
dr. ruth do you really believe that
do you believe girls in nineteen ninety six don't think they may end up in the workplace
no i
most of their mamas are already there
talking especially about the relationships that these girls and boys are going to be involved in later on as of next year boys and girls to go with their mothers and with their fathers to a workplace
our children do have to know what it looks like to be working that it's not just shuffling papers that it's not like saying oh i'm so tired they actually should go and see wherever their parents works
but i would like to see boys and girls
i think it was important to say for a while okay but girls have to study mathematics
they have to study science but the time has come for nineteen ninety seven going to the year two thousand to say boys and girls let's work together
allen disagrees with you
why do you think there is a benefit allen in separating out the two genders of children and bringing the little girls into the office without boys there that day
well i think it's important for girls to see what it would be like to have a career and to be expected to succeed
i don't think it's we never heard about sons being in the workplace and how sons were being discriminated against until daughters days got invented
if people were really concerned about sons and really thinking that sons
oh i disagree
getting the message about
i think there's been a reality of discrimination in the workplace against women workers longer than four years which is when ms. magazine started this
right
so i think rather
i'd love allen to respond to that dr. ruth
yes
i just you know if if it strikes me as a female allen frankly
yes
as a little condescending for anybody to be telling women you know if you just had more self esteem you'd be in better shape
oh yeah
no no
i don't think it's about self esteem
i think it is about the fact that there is discrimination in the workplace
there is discrimination in every workplace there is that women still earn less that more people who are more women are impoverished than men in the united states
to dr. ruth
but but but
on that point
isn't that precisely
exactly
the reason to bring little boys in
exactly
they're the ones who are doing the discriminating aren't they
because because if that guy is later my boss i want him to know and to remember what it was when he went with his parents
not only mary do i want parents to take children to work i want grandparents in that picture
which means you
i of course
i want us to say i'm not wasting my time in knocking the idea
it was four years
it was wonderful
it was a good idea for discussion
and now the time has come to say children must know what their parents work
but
let's take a break
and when we come back let's talk about if one day may not solve all of the gender gap problems in the workplace what will
stay with us
i learned that it takes a couple of minutes for a fax to go through to another country
i made five hundred eleven copies
i was doing my dad's work
he let me like go play on the computer
those are some of the little girls who were at work with their parents on take your daughter to work day yesterday
janet parshall has joined us
i'll give you a quick fill january
dr. ruth says she thinks that take your daughter to work is an idea whose time has passed that it's out of date and redundant
now allen says he thinks it's great because little girls still need to somehow get past that glass ceiling
your position on all of this
well let me tell you as the parent of two girls and two boys i have had a problem with this project since its inception back in nineteen ninety three and i have for a couple of reasons
first of all because it's built on fallacious social science the idea that somewhere along the line between the ages of nine and fifteen girls suffer some irreparable damage to their self esteem and it can be repaired at least in part by taking them to work
well the reason i have some problems with that is because what we're telling young girls is that their worth their affirmation can be found in the marketplace
well that's not true
we know as a matter of fact that first and foremost their worth comes when they look back into the face of their mom and dad and their mom and dad say you have worth
you have value in my eyes
i affirm you
you are the most precious thing on the face of the earth what you do with your life what you choose to do with your life those are important decisions but you will never get your worth there
and let me tell you mary why we know that
we just have an abundance of reports from the whirlpool foundation to the roper poll that was done that said the vast majority of women themselves do not define their job as a career but rather as a job as a way of keeping their family financially afloat
and if they had their druthers they say they'd rather get a little less pay to be able to
i wonder if the same
spend more time with their families
question were put to guys what they would say
dr. ruth
no what i i do agree with janet about the self worth but i would say that in the year two thousand we are approaching i believe that we can do both and have a rewarding career now i'm not talking of somebody who has to put sixteen hours a day and to raise children
i raised my two children by working part time and i had a smile because i was very contented with my work and didn't feel that i'm giving up anything
we just have to know and that's why i believe boys have to be part of it
housework has to be shared
i want to let allen back into the conversation
one of the things that concerns me both as a female and as the mother of one allen is that when you say to little girls in effect you need a crutch of some sort that maybe you persuade them they really do need a crutch and they don't
no i think we're saying the opposite that there's a handicap already out there
there is already gender pay inequity in the workplace and has been
perpetrated by who
and continues to be
perpetrated by who
well it's in the institution and it's recycled over and over again
male bosses
generation to generation
see what i'm getting at
so this isn't about
is how does it fix that to take little girls in
if you assume that the problem is not their fault how is it within their ability to fix it
by working harder for a boss who may not give them a promotion anyway dr. ruth
number
exactly by saying there are certain limitations
know those limitations
make your own way but have those boys involved
the more the boys are going to be a part of the household chores of washing dishes of taking the garbage out the more the woman can sit and read a very intellectual book
so it's
mary may i respond
so dr. ruth
may i respond mary to that
you would say take our sons home day
first of all the issue of pay parity i think needs to be addressed
janet go ahead
the issue of pay parity i think needs to be addressed
there was some inequitability there for a while but that is being rectified to the point where even the wall street journal is recording that when seniority is not an issue and before you take the issue of women who have climbed off the corporate ladder to stay home and have a baby there's almost one hundred percent pay parity there
so that is not the issue number one
number two we've created a kind of transcendent ethic that says work is the most important thing in the world
with all due respect to allen when my baby girls were born we didn't send out an announcement that said congratulations
we had a victim and i think that's what's being perpetrated out there is that somehow we send the girls in saying they're crippled
and here's the ms. foundation's response by the way to the sons and this comes right from a march twenty ninth memo from the ms. foundation penned by marie wilson herself
it says we've not yet quite decided what we want to do but here are some of the components we'd like to see
first of all boys would play at sports where nobody would win as the daughter of a football coach i have a problem with that number one
number two take the boys grocery shopping
have them prepare a meal and then teach them not to perpetrate violence against women so to my daughters i say as of yesterday here's where your worth comes in when we take you to the workplace to my sons i say bad boys
bad boys
bad boys
but janet listen
aren't you what you really want is for your daughters to have a choice to be able to decide about what their future is going to be
they have that now
and to have no limits on what careers
i believe
they have that now
are open to them and
i think all of us would like our children sons and daughters
and the choice
to have bosses who would let them fulfill their capabilities at work
the choice
yes
and why can't they become bosses
but the choice has to be also for men
i'm not saying but once that baby is here maybe it's going to be that father who really would like to take time off and nurture that baby
so
oh i
i do believe very strongly for the life of the satisfaction of that couple later we have to get boys and girls together to see what this world looks like because they're not living only with women or only with men
a question and dr. ruth i'm going to start with you but also get janet and allen's opinion as well
is it coincidental that some of the strongest backers of this take your daughter to work day idea gloria steinem at ms. magazine marlo thomas allen you yourself are people who have no children of their own
that's a very interesting point but i don't want to make that point
all right
because i don't psychoanalyze
i have two children two grandchildren
i see janet i see you mary have a child
i don't want to generalize about that
i want to say something else
bravo to the idea that worked for four years
let's not just hang on an old idea
we have so many changes in this world
we must change with a newfound wisdom that janet just said and say the time has come
thank you old idea
now boys and girls together we march into the workplace
allen can you
yes
may i respond to that
conceive of yeah
i was curious if you conceive of it being possible that your opinion would change if you had a young daughter or a son at home
well what i should what i want to say to that is that the project i direct spends time in the classroom with young people
in the last fifteen years i have seen over thirty thousand teenagers in high schools doing the program we do and i have four young men ages nine to seventeen in my life that i'm an uncle a godfather for and other wise watch out for
i'm really concerned
so let them go to work with you
about their future
i'm really concerned about what's going to happen to these boys
their future is limited
they have violence they're facing
the girls in their lives are looking at limited options
i mean really out there in the united states
no
wait wait wait allen
there is really a gender difference going on
allen
number
no
let's let janet in
dr. ruth you're back in a second
allen
go ahead
okay
here's the problem that i have
remember that all of this is fallaciously being marketed to the public out there as take your daughters i have a memo on my desk from the department of energy that got sent out to the employees there that said that when they get there they'll be connected with an experienced mentor
so it isn't even about familial bonds
it really is about mentoring
and by the way we've got a professor from princeton and a student from stanford that got together and discovered that even these mentoring relationships don't do much to improve self esteem
the bottom line is if we're going to talk about family and we're going to talk about worth and one would presuppose that that's the primary thesis in this proposal that that comes by spending time with our children
we have study after study after study that says
yes
spend time with me if bill bennett is right in this area and i think he is the family still remains the best department of health
and you think better than
education and welfare
bring your daughters to work it should be send mom home for the day or dad
take the day off
you got that right
got to take a break
dr. ruth will be first when we come back
stay with us
welcome back
we've only got a few minutes left so i hope everybody will be pithy please
dr. ruth you first
question one do you agree with janet that it's bogus sociology to think adolescent girls hit some point when they lose self confidence
want to start it real quickly there and then go on if you
no i i do agree with janet that there is a complicated set of issues to be discussed with adolescent girls
but i don't say that this is a lasting issue psychologically speaking
and i agree with allen that we need an extended family in terms of taking care of all of those needs
so it can be an uncle
it doesn't have to be the father or the mother
and i do agree with bennett about the value of family and
you are so agreeable today dr. ruth
and i come out with a brand new book next month the value of family
a question to janet
if take your daughters to work day is not a solution for anything what is
i mean there have been studies that show that teachers in the classroom will encourage boys to speak out in a way they do not encourage girls to
i think every woman has known that there has been some difference in the way she was treated in the workplace by a boss who may have been a woman by the way
how do you fix that
oh great question mary
let me respond first as a former public school teacher
good teachers know how to call on students and pull the best out of them
that study by the way was perpetrated by the american association of university women who had already a pre described ending to their study
so i think that that was the fox minding the chicken coop on that one
but here's how i would rectify it
what i would do is i would help get the economic burden off the back of families
we just filled out our tax forms all of us due the fifteenth
let's increase that deduction for children
it shouldn't be two thousand five hundred dollars
to keep up with inflation it should be eight thousand dollars
oh we are going far afield from bring your daughter to work day
but let me tell you let me tell you we're talking about women in the workplace are we not
when we look at the majority of moms of pre school children when asked this question would you rather be at work or would you rather be at home they say resoundingly eighty six percent i'd rather be home with my child
i know of many fathers who feel
i don't agree with that
that way too though allen
i don't believe that
we've only got a few seconds left
i do want to give allen a shot
but i don't agree with
what do you think this one day a year accomplishes to benefit women
quickly
it's a beginning
it gives young women a picture of no limits and it's the beginning of a future where boys and girls will work together in some kind of equality have families together work together and be in a community with
would you have any objection
each other
allen to bringing sons in on that day
lots of families did that yesterday
well i think it'll happen
i think it's going to happen and it does happen and it will happen
what would be great is if sons and daughters got to experience the workplace under conditions of equality
i think it would be good for boys to see the possibility of working equally with girls and having women as bosses and you know
last word
i'm sorry
all out of time
we needed a little more today
very much appreciate all three of you being with us allen creighton janet parshall and dr. ruth westheimer who
thank you mary
was so agreeable
a pleasure to have all three of you here and of course we're pleased everybody out there was with us too
hope you have a fine weekend and are right back here on monday
as president clinton and i have both often stated negotiations to achieve a comprehensive peace are the only way that the people of israel lebanon and syria can achieve peace
that is the only way they can finally obtain the security they so richly deserve
the united states remains unwavering in its determination to assist the parties to achieve what they deserve
we hope and expect today's understanding to allow the movement beyond the current crisis and to return once again to the historic effort to achieve an arab israeli peace an effort for which the prime minister has devoted so much of his attention and with such splendid results
so i am very glad that the united states has been able to take a step today working with the parties to put the peace process back on track
thank you shimon for the opportunity to do this with you
when the israeli and syrian lebanese peace talks will resume will this latest crisis effect the negotiations themselves
and do you expect the talks to resume before the may twenty eighth elections
the talks will the u. s. will look into the date
i think when you're discussing these matters you should judge according to what happens and the behavior
the fact is today the secretary of state was able to reach an agreement with president assad of syria
the agreement of nineteen ninety three which talks about self defense for israel israel is strengthened by this agreement and its security is also strengthened
mr. prime minister don't you fear that due to these understandings there will be limitations by the israeli army's ability to act in lebanon
also when the peace talks resume maybe confrontational any other place
i don't see any limitations
i see that there are clarifications and we will have freedom of movement
lebanon is now recognized as a partner and this is very important
we are not interested in the destruction of lebanon
we are not interested in the division of lebanon
we are interested in a lebanon that is strong a neighbor of israel and i want to make it clear to the leaders of lebanon we have no territorial desires on lebanon and we do not want to harm lebanon
as we all know the situation in lebanon is not simple and therefore we are starting a good beginning a better beginning than we had before
on your question the opportunity that i had to spend so much time with the leaders of both syria and lebanon gave me an opportunity to press for the renewal of the peace process and that was particularly true of lebanon
i don't often get together with prime minister hariri and in our discussions i think we both emphasize the importance of the lebanese israel track moving forward and i would hope there would be early meetings along those lines
prime minister i am trying to understand what happens tomorrow morning
will the hezbollah continue to act in agreement to these understandings and what will prevent them from sending in weapons via syria into south lebanon
there is a syrian agreement and there is also an agreement by our side that we will not act
i think that in a joint effort by syria lebanon and israel there will be an end to these attacks
you expect the syrians to stop sending in these weapons
i don't divide work there is an agreement and i expect that everyone who was party to this agreement will do what they have to do
mr. secretary jud ginsberg c. n. n.
could you tell us what the main sticking points were at the end of this agreement
well there were a number of difficult points as we moved through the agreement
the composition of the monitoring committee was a complex choice because we wanted it small and also effective
in the final discussions france was added to the monitoring committee
we also had very intensive discussions of a very important provision that prevents civilian populated areas from being used for launching attacks
i think that will turn out to be one of the most important provision in the agreement and there was very extensive discussions of that and all the words used in that particular provision
paragraph one and two of the agreement are the core of the commitment on behalf of one side that the groups in lebanon will not fire into israel on the other side israel's commitment not to fire at civilian targets
so those were key provisions but the whole agreement was very heavily discussed
i would say the length of it or on the contrary the shortness of it is a tribute to the amount of time we took
both the syrians and the israelis i think were very commendable in wanting an agreement that was succinct tight that each of the words had been fairly carefully considered and so as i say it's a relatively short agreement
we shortened it as we moved through rather than lengthening it which is really contrary to the usual process
prime minister my first question is is there any secret part of the agreement a quiet or silent agreement
and mr. secretary is there anything in this agreement that prohibited hezbollah to act from the populated areas from the villages in south lebanon
there is a provision in the agreement that prevents the use of the civilian populated areas or various infrastructures such as industrial areas electrical areas are being used for launching attacks
and that was designed to prevent hezbollah or other groups there from in effect hiding behind civilian areas or using them for launching processes
ultimately the agreement will depend upon how effectively it is implemented but all three parties i think are very determined at the present time to achieve a period of calm in the area
i was struck by the fact that as we worked through the end of this agreement that the parties wanted to achieve a degree of calm in the area that would enable first their citizens to go back to their homes but also for the peace process to be reinstated
mr. secretary
there are no secret agreements
there are certain understandings and they will be publicized at a certain point later on
every agreement will be put before the conference
mr. prime ministers if this situation returns itself if there are attacks by the hezbollah in the future from civilian areas will israeli troops be able to act
the right of self defense is not limited and if our forces are attacked they will return fire
so what i think today i have to express my deep appreciation for the residents of northern israel who sat in the shelters for two weeks after we were attacked and they showed great understanding of the situation and i hope that the life in the area will return to normal
i will send the finance minister at the end of the sabbath to the upper galilee western and the northern galilee in order to invest and put in permits for the restoration of the area
the secretary of state three main agreements three main understandings that syria lebanon and israel are interested in a cease fire and the end of harming of civilians on both sides of the border
this is a very crucial fact and i think the desire existed before but in order to reach an agreement between the three sides in seven short days and the seven nights that the secretary stayed that his team worked day and night an unbelievable amount of work this was a draft for future agreements between the three countries
how will the monitoring committee operate
will it have observers on the ground
and also i don't want to belabor this point about the hezbollah and the populated areas but since the problem with the understandings lay on the fringes of the agreement and the hezbollah would might launch rockets for example just outside a village and then run and hide inside it does the wording of the agreement which you have gained which you say is very concise does it deal with problems like this on the margins of the agreement
your questions are interestingly interrelated
the monitoring committee will consist of five countries as i said in my statement
its procedures will be developed by the monitoring committee itself
we would anticipate that it will be formed in the very near future and the united states intends to take the lead in ensuring the monitoring committee is formed very promptly
i would anticipate that the committee will have if not investigators they'll certainly have technical experts who can assess various situations and one of the reasons we built the monitoring committee into the agreement was so that if there are complaints alleged violations to the agreement they can be brought to the attention of the monitoring committee and investigated
and i think if there are gray areas for example an attempt is made to abuse civilian populated areas that's the kind of thing that can be brought to the monitoring committee for review there
last question
o. k.
mr. peres deborah haran from the san francisco chronicle
speak louder
i'm afraid we can't hear
deborah haran from the san francisco chronicle
yes
i've been in contact with lebanese civilians over the last two weeks and they tell me that if israel would leave the southern lebanon that hezbollah's raison d'etre would dissolve and that this would be the way to solve the problem and they're suspicious of an israeli desire to stay in southern lebanon before what they consider a legitimate resistance group has left their land
and i want to know how you would respond to that
well first of all may i say that we do not intend to remain in lebanon forever
we don't have any ambitions or any plans of that nature
secondly if the lebanese government and the lebanese army will disarm the hezbollah and we shall know that there are not two armies in lebanon but one and there are not two strategies but one and there is no two authorities then we do not have real reasons to remain there and then we can have a real peace agreement
by the way we are ready to start the negotiations right away a real peace agreement that will provide security and peace for lebanon and israel
but you cannot have a government and a government within a government which is called a resistance government
and the division of the authority leads to the division of the territory all of other places all of other there is also the participation of the french and i think finally it was a great achievement for the secretary of the united states who came here with his team with a lot of devotion and a very difficult task so that they could change a situation which was extremely dangerous and to open up new relationship between our countries
and this is a great promise for the future
all right
we have been watching a news conference coming to us live from jerusalem featuring u. s. secretary of state warren christopher as well as israeli prime minister shimon peres
they're outlining the formal announcement of the agreement of a cease fire involving syria lebanon and israel one that would rein in hezbollah guerrillas prevent them from firing katyusha rockets into civilian areas across the border into northern israel and at the same time rule out israeli strikes against civilians in south lebanon or civilian areas
mr. christopher noted that this was a written understanding
he thinks as a result it's going to be more enduring and certainly less open for interpretation
as he put it that had been a problem in the past
also a key point here that hezbollah is to be reined in
it is not to launch katyusha rocket attacks or any attacks from civilian areas
of course israel throughout the sixteen day crisis had been complaining that hezbollah constantly shields its fighters behind large numbers of civilians
and finally a monitoring group
this is a new feature of this cease fire agreement
that monitoring group would be made up of representatives from several countries
we heard from secretary of state christopher that there was some wrangling at the last minute and indeed french representatives have been included in that monitoring committee
i want to go now to south lebanon and c. n. n.'s brent sadler
brent your impressions of what was just announced
thank you
well first of all there are some hours to run before the cease fire comes into effect
i can confirm that there have been a couple of artillery thumps just within the past few minutes
nothing like we've seen for the past sixteen days but obviously a degree of military activity continuing
my analysis of what i've just heard coming out of that jerusalem press conference really focuses on this provision about the prohibition of hezbollah using civilian areas to launch their attacks against israeli troops in the security zone the strip of land they occupy in south lebanon
now the problem is that the hezbollah guerrillas themselves and hezbollah supporters are really part and parcel of the whole south lebanese population down here
it is not a question of isolating the hezbollah guerrilla groups from the local population
they live in the villages they have families in the villages they have practical and tacit support from not only the villages in the south but also the lebanese government
so there is one aspect to look at
another angle to come at this from is the monitoring group which is supposed to be looking at how any cease fire violations might take place
that monitoring group we understand will be led by the united states but it would also include france israel lebanon and syria
now the procedures for monitoring any cease fire violations is going to be a laborious procedure
events happen on the ground very quickly here
there are instances before this flare up where you get an action by hezbollah against the position in south lebanon
that leads to retaliation artillery retaliation and spill over punishment if you like of south lebanese villages
it would be very difficult to distinguish between you know civilian areas and guerrillas because they are intertwined
incidents happen here very quickly
it is an active war front
it has been for many years hezbollah leading the lebanese resistance here
now who is going to prevent them from using these areas
is the lebanese army going to take a more active role in its positions
certainly the lebanese army that is deployed in south lebanon has played a passive role completely throughout the israel grapes of wrath operation
is the lebanese army going to take a more robust attitude in making sure hezbollah activities in these south lebanon villages is restricted
is the syrian army we've heard nothing about what their involvement will their profile be higher in this
i doubt it given that the phraseology being used by u. s. secretary of state is that this agreement this written out agreement has been achieved with the consultation of syria
we don't hear any key words like guarantees of the government of damascus
so what we see is a re application if you like of the ninety three july ninety third brokered accord which warren christopher was involved in
yes it is going to be written out rather than verbal
yes there are pledges that katyushas will not be fired at israel nor the towns there and vice versa into lebanese civilian areas
three civilian areas will not be used by hezbollah
who is going to make sure that doesn't happen
and fourth this monitoring group
that is going to be an establishment of technical experts and so on and so forth on the ground and the concern there is that events happen here very quickly
as i talk to you now more shells exploding
so somehow before the cease fire comes into effect my analysis of this is that yes it is an agreement it is a basis for what warren christopher calls a more enduring set of principles but there are certainly drawbacks in this
and as far as hezbollah is concerned it is going to be continuing resistance against the israeli occupation of south lebanon
jim clancy
well brent as you say a lot of this is going to depend on really the willingness of all sides to go ahead and cooperate and it doesn't sound if you're hearing shells falling right now it doesn't sound that its meeting the spirit of the cease fire that has been agreed to so far even though that cease fire is not scheduled to go into effect for many more hours yet
let's go now to the white house and c. n. n.'s senior white house correspondent wolf blitzer
wolf your impressions
well there is no doubt jim that u. s. officials are very pleased that the secretary of state of the united states brokered this deal
there were a lot of other international diplomats involved in trying to reach some sort of cease fire agreement the french the russians representatives of the european union and other countries but it was the united states that put the finishing touches on it
primarily because the israeli government we're told made clear that it wanted the u. s. government to be the principal negotiator to have the influence with the syrians the lebanese and the others to come through with this deal
so that is good news as far as the clinton administration is concerned
it shows that this administration led by the president of course and the secretary of state were the principal players
now once the cease fire formally goes into effect there is still a lot of concern here that it may not hold
there could be incidents and there have been these two groups that have been created to monitor the cease fire
a monitoring group that we've been talking about as well as a subsequent consultative group that would include russia the european union and others
they will be involved in what will be efforts to make sure that this cease fire holds
there is no guarantee that it will although u. s. officials point out that in the past whenever the syrian government which has a lot of influence over events in lebanon whenever the syrian government has wanted to make sure that the border remains quiet it has remained quiet
and in fact the israeli syrian border up on the golan heights has been very quiet over these past many many years
so the syrians are presumably going to be involved in making sure that the hezbollah don't fire katyusha rockets on northern israel and the israelis don't respond to that kind of provocation
the side agreements the secret agreements which they spoke about which have not been made clear of course will be a source of tremendous concern
what if anything from the u. s. perspective did the white house promise did the united states promise syria lebanon israel as part of this agreement
we won't know that presumably for some time
u. s. officials are of course very encouraged that perhaps out of this cease fire agreement will be a resumption of israeli lebanese and israeli syrian talks and at achieving a comprehensive settlement
jim
all right
wolf thank you very much
c. n. n.'s senior white house correspondent wolf blitzer
our coverage of the cease fire announcement from both lebanon and jerusalem will continue
its ramifications its real meaning
we are hoping to bring you the taped press conference from beirut lebanon that features prime minister rafik al hariri as well as french foreign minister herve de charette when we come back
stay with us
the czech republic is home to a unique outpost of american broadcasting
radio free europe was born more than four decades ago when communism was thriving
but now some u. s. lawmakers don't see the point
bill delaney reports
on radio free europe's six o'clock in the evening broadcast to russia from studios in downtown prague in the czech republic what news is all about
news up to the minute at a news service under fire
we are under instruction to try to find ways to privatize that is to move away from the federal budget and we have to ask ourselves constantly are we providing the value that the american taxpayer deserves
since the walls of the old soviet empire tumbled the radio service budget has too
created in nineteen fifty one by the c. i. a. post communism the u. s. congress began asking questions culminating last year when the radio service moved prague from munich to survive it's budget from an annual two hundred twenty million dollars to seventy five million dollars
the government of the czech republic still thinks radio free europe is so important it rents it this entire building downtown prague for about a dollar a month about the only financial good news this u. s. government funded radio service has had since it moved here
not that executives don't admit there was fat with a third less money managing now to broadcast seven hundred hours a week in twenty three languages with four hundred employees instead of one thousand one hundred
radio free europe plans to privatize this year it's service in the czech republic where a free and fair media is well established
where it's not they say they can still be a voice in the wilderness keeping the old walls down
bill delaney c. n. n. prague
the city of atlanta georgia is primping for the olympic games this summer
but there are some people who say they're being brushed aside because image is everything
brian cabell has the story
there are an estimated thirty thousand homeless in atlanta and increasingly they say as the olympics approach they are being forced out
the store owners and the police are all getting together and they're making people move wherever you stand you got to move
police deny any such harassment
they only enforce laws against trespassing begging and loitering
and now they have some help
new quasi police officers known as the ambassador force funded by a city business group have just hit the streets
we're going to be the eyes and the ears of the atlanta police department
basically we're going to report any activities that might be suspicious
homeless people should not go to jail unless the commit crimes and remaining in a parking lot or walking down the wrong place or looking the wrong way to a police officer is not a crime
the olympic city's mayor vehemently denies any war on the homeless
there will be no sweeping of the streets
there will be no effort to camouflage our problems
but the homeless who recently have found refuge at the city's airport point to a program sponsored by traveler's aid and funded by the county offering transients one way trips out of town if they don't return
traveler's aid insists it's only trying to help both the individuals and the city
this program has nothing to with the olympics
it's there because atlanta has continued to attract more and more low income newcomers
they are attracted by the sometimes false promise of jobs as the city readies itself for the world stage this summer
i can understand the olympics coming that's billions of bucks man you know
but for who
not for the homeless he says
it's for an increasingly affluent city eager to play host to two million visitors in july and august
brian cabell c. n. n. atlanta
afghanistan tops newsroom worldview today
it has a tumultuous history marked by ancient invasions at the hands of persians greeks mongols and most recently the former soviet union
during the nineteen eighties one and a half million afghans died to push the soviet army out
they did it with help of billions of dollars in u. s. aid
since then one superpower has collapsed and the other has packed up and gone home
but the killing goes on as a new civil war has set in
many afghans say they feel abandoned and insist the u. s. still has a moral obligation to help
we get more from christiane amanpour
it's called bouskeshi calf pulling
it's afghanistan's national sport ferocious and wildly popular
competing teams fight over the animal sometimes ripping it to shreds
swap the calf for afghanistan and the horsemen for her many warring factions and you get a pretty good picture of what is happening to this country today
seven years after sending the soviets packing afghanistan is still at war this time with herself
brother killing brother
yeah fighting
without nothing i don't know what's happening
a taxi driver tries to explain but little prepares you for this futility
vast stretches of the capital kabul lie in ruins destroyed not during the ten year soviet occupation but afterwards when victorious islamic fighters known as mujahedeen turned on each other in a battle for power
civilians trying to get off the carousel of death move once twice too many times but they cannot escape
our lives are completely ruined says this mother
we've moved three times in three years because our homes were attacked
in nineteen ninety four alone ten thousand residents of kabul were killed twenty five thousand were wounded and one million fled the capital exceeding even the pain serbs inflicted on sarajevo in four years
but pity the victims of a war that has fallen off the trendometer
the spotlighting was blinding in the eighties when the soviets rolled and made this the last cold war battleground
then the united states poured in billions of dollars to fight them thorough mujahedeen guerrillas
but when the communists left the u. s. rolled up its afghan maps and now the dying goes on in the dark
we have unfinished business here
i think we didn't stay long enough to see these people through the critical period
i think the critical period continued after the soviets left
the united nations red cross and a host of other relief agencies are the only ones trying to see the people through
the kabul government has little authority beyond keeping other factions at bay
each claims to be more moslem than the next a distinction lost on the people who see the holy warriors riding around in expensive cars and getting their pick ups hosed down while they live in slums with no running water and even less say over whether they live or die
i want to tell them to stop the war and they they kill their brothers
they fight with each other
it's not a good way
that kind of despair is slowly sapping kabul's strength
the government says the u. s. has a moral duty to re engage
but it's embassy remains firmly shut
u. s. involvement amounts to backing a defunct u. n. peace mission
the u. n. has been trying without success for the last two years to get the warring factions to form a national authority just to kick off the political process
but increasingly many fear nothing will change unless the major powers weigh in on the side of peace
in the meantime the war is being aggravated as more and more neighboring countries become involved
iran russia india and pakistan are said to be minding their own interests by supplying various sides while working on a negotiated settlement
observers believe no side can win a clear military victory so casual killing fills the stalemate
the future lies with the generation of kalashnikov toting illiterates and the world has one more wasteland who's people were food enough to fight it's war but not worth the effort for peace
christiane amanpour c. n. n. kabul
an energetic sound from india is catching on in several nations thanks to a style that incorporates all kinds of musical tastes
riz khan has the story
it is not always obviously bangra music but before long the eastern flavors come through
the clothes combine east and west and even the overall look sometimes
no this isn't george michael but you can see what i mean
it is easy to see where bangra music gets some of its influences from but its true roots go far back into punjabi tradition
bangra is originally a folk music from north india
it is from the state of punjab originally and it was performed at a time just after the harvest time so it is at a time when things are good and there are celebrations going on so the whole idea is that you relax all the hard work is done and you just have a good time and bangra music originated from there
it is basically rhythmic music played on a double sided drum called a dhol and that is what makes the rhythm and that is what essentially bangra is at its core
but that core has changed
mutated into a hybrid music that takes the flow of anything from soul to reggae
the style of bangra is wide partly a result of the fact that it was developed in britain as a cultural link for young asians looking to their roots from a western perspective
some wanted something very western while for others the appeal came from a much more traditional sound
in india they don't use modern guitar kind of rock guitar and you know heavy guitar kind of stuff but we use here use them here
we use the heavy guitars and the keyboard samples and everything but we mix that kind of music with the traditional instruments and that is why this is very different than the punjab music
multitone records is leading the way with its string of successful bangra artists and ironically when it was set up in nineteen seventy nine it was aiming specifically to bridge the gap between eastern and western tastes
the safri boyz are considered one of the leading lights in bangra music
their album get real sold fifty thousand copies
rather good considering there are only two million indians in britain
the success of this music is a phenomenon
what makes bangra wonderful as a music scene is that unlike a lot of the dance music that is going on around the u. k. it is live driven
it is concerts that bring the bands together with their public
so that is one thing
they are absolutely marvelous live and you'll see that hopefully if you go to a bangra concert
that is one thing and they make just great bangra songs
you know they've taken those rhythms and created new songs which are wrapped around western dance culture and embodied the rhythm of bangra into very catchy wonderful music
well if this wonderful music continues to be as catchy and continues to drum up support its success will be very hard to beat
riz khan c. n. n. reporting
the atlanta committee for the olympic games is trying to squelch talk of an olympic cover up
at issue a pair if nude statues and what they will or will not be wearing at a special ceremony
c. n. n.'s anne mcdermott takes a look at the bare facts
maybe maybe a lot of people in los angeles have been to florence which would explain their tolerance for nude statues in louisiana
like these these were commissioned for the nineteen eighty four olympic games here and they will be the backdrop for the start of saturdays nineteen ninety six olympic torch relay for the games to be played in atlanta this summer
however according to a story in the los angeles times some folks on the atlanta olympics committee seem to think no nudes is good nudes
no no
well now they're saying to the media and to the world that they don't want any cover up that the nudes will be naked
the only thing i can say is that the statues have now been cleaned and they were covered with plastic to keep them clean
so maybe somebody jumped to a conclusion or something
why cover them with plastic
easy think birds
meanwhile the head of the commission for the los angeles coliseum the sight of what are rapidly becoming the world's most famous nudes sorry david anyway she says there was some talk out of atlanta about having banners placed in front of these nude statues
but never she says did she hear anything about covering up nudity
oh no
meanwhile she has heard plenty from irate callers angered by the possible cover up
now were these callers art lovers or nudo philes
oh they were art lovers i'm certain
there was no indication they were pro nudity
what about the man who made the statues
why did he make them nude
the olympic athletes in the first greek games were would perform or compete in the nude
anyway the folks from the atlanta olympics say come on this is a non issue
i think you've got the naked truth there
or at least the bare facts
as for the los angeles times
they stand by their story
anne mcdermott c. n. n. los angeles
lets find out a little more now from wolf blitzer who is with us as we saw and heard live at the white house in the press room
wolf
well reid white house officials before the president's remarks told me that they had been briefed on the latest arrests in georgia
they wouldn't provide details saying as the president did that the justice department would make all of those details available to reporters at the appropriate time
they do point out that president clinton as he says is going to open the ceremonies on july nineteenth in atlanta
he will then host a reception in atlanta for visiting heads of state and other dignitaries
he wants we're told to then come back to washington but eventually return to atlanta to actually watch some of the games though no final decision has yet been made whether he will go back to atlanta
as far the security situation in georgia is in connection with the olympic games white house officials do point out that this is a major issue of concern they say
unfortunately one senior official told me we live in this kind of world but he points out that the justice department the u. s. justice department has been in charge of an agency task force which has been reviewing all of the security provisions in atlanta and in georgia and elsewhere in connection with the summer olympics
reid
just one thing in the briefing was the suggestion made or the allegation made that these bombs in this investigation had to do with the olympics
the impression that i am getting here at the white house although no one has specifically made that link between the arrests today in georgia and the olympics the impression i'm getting is that there is some fear that there could be a connection and we'll just have to wait and see what the justice department formally says
but at this point no one is making that hard connection right now
they're just sort of implying that there is some sort of link to the olympics
all right wolf back on the business of the moment which is after all the peace arrangement the president said that mr. peres joined him in welcoming the agreement
that puts the united states in the forefront of having forged it does it not
right and that's exactly what the united states wanted to do
it wanted to be the principal party that brokered this deal which it did in nineteen ninety three an earlier cease fire along the israeli lebanese border which was more oral less formal than this one
they're hoping that because this one has been put into writing it will last longer it will be a permanent settlement ending the fighting between israel and the hezbollah forces in south lebanon
of course only time will tell and we'll have to wait and see
there is concern that the cease fire there could be some violations it may not hold
but there is this mechanism involving the united states syria lebanon israel and france which would be involved in monitoring violations of the cease fire agreement
all right
and in diplomatic terms this is only the status of an understanding must less a treaty
secretary of state christopher made that clear
this is not an agreement it's an understanding which in diplomatic terms is less than an agreement
o. k. wolf i understand we're out of time
thank you very much
thank you
i'm reid collins in washington for wolf blitzer
we are going straight now to the middle east and a news conference already in progress in jerusalem
now i think we can start
ladies and gentlemen as they say it is a boy
i would like to congratulate the secretary of state of the united states warren christopher for an outstanding job that he and his delegation have performed and concluded over the last few days
from an almost impossible situation with three parties far away from each other the secretary was able to bring for the first time in my judgment an agreement between syria an understanding actually is this word between syria and us and the lebanese
the nature of the agreement will be announced by the itself
i want simply to say to the secretary on behalf of our people and behalf of our government thank you from the depth of our heart
i think you served peace you did it with great dignity and wisdom and friendship and i know what a difficult time you have had to go through
it is an achievement for you and for all of us
i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the president of the united states president clinton for asking the secretary and the peace team to come over here at a very trying time and a difficult time
thank you sir
mr. prime minister ladies and gentlemen
after seven days of shuttling in the region i am very pleased to announce that we've reached an agreement on a new set of understandings to end the current crisis
carrying out of these understandings will end the katyusha attacks and protect citizens civilians in both israel and lebanon allowing them finally to return to their homes and to leave the air raid shelters
these understandings will take affect at four o'clock a. m. tomorrow
we have achieved the goal of our mission which was to achieve an agreement that will save lives and end the suffering of people on both sides of the israeli lebanese border
these understandings take us well beyond the oral understanding that i negotiated in july of nineteen ninety three
they represent a significant improvement for several reasons
first today's understandings are written out and they've been worked out through detailed discussions with israel and lebanon and in direct consultation with syria
as such they should prove more enduring and less susceptible to misinterpretation
second these new understandings explicitly rule out attacks into israel by katyusha rockets or any other kind of weapon
similarly israel undertakes not to fire weapons at civilians or civilian targets in lebanon
third use of civilian populated areas as launching grounds for attacks is explicitly prohibited by the new understandings
fourth the understandings provide for the establishment of a monitoring group that will monitor application of the understandings that handle complaints
this group will consist of the united states france syria lebanon and israel
we are also creating a consultative group to include the european union russia and other interested parties for the specific purpose of assisting in the reconstruction needs of lebanon
i want to make it clear that these understandings are not a substitute for a complete and permanent solution
they are not a substitute for a peace agreement between israel and lebanon
that is why the united states believes that the resolution of this crisis should be the basis for returning to negotiations seeking a comprehensive peace
toward that end and as part of today's understandings we propose that peace talks between lebanon and israel and syria and israel be resumed very promptly
the united states has emphasized and does so in this agreement that such negotiations should and must be conducted in a climate of stability and tranquility in this region
during the intensive negotiations that we have had over the last seven days the leaders of israel lebanon and syria indicated their commitment to end the crisis and to ensure that it does not re occur
of course the test of any agreement this agreement included is how it is carried out and therefore the united states will look to each of the parties to fulfill the obligation they have undertaken
for the past two weeks the attention of the world has been riveted on lebanon
i want to express my appreciation to a number of my fellow foreign ministers who traveled to the region and demonstrated the international community's commitment to bring the crisis to an end
i know that each of the countries from which these foreign ministers came will continue to play an important role to ensure the success of the understandings and to support a resumption of the peace process
jacqueline kennedy onassis left her children an intangible legacy and quite a bit of stuff some of which they didn't want
but some people want it very badly and c. n. n.'s gary tuchman is covering the jackie o. auction and he is joining us now to report on this fourth and final day
what can you tell us today
well catherine welcome back to this cavalcade of camelot and capitalism where practicality is not the practical word
where for the price of john f. kennedy's golf clubs you could buy thirty five brand new cars
where for the price of jacqueline kennedy's imitation pears you could buy a four bedroom house
this is the last day of the auction
it's the glamour items that have gotten the most attention at the jacqueline kennedy onassis auction
lot number seven hundred thirty four
but there hasn't been one item that has escaped some form of significant attention
for example this forty five r. p. m. record of john kennedy's presidential inaugural address
it was valued at two hundred dollars but
two thousand dollars now bidding at two thousand dollars
any advance of two thousand dollars
at twenty five three thousand dollars
three thousand is up three thousand five hundred dollars
front row three thousand five hundred dollars
four thousand dollars telephone
forty five hundred dollars now
at four thousand five hundred dollars
five thousand dollars not bidding at five thousand dollars
on the phone now five thousand dollars five thousand dollars five thousand five hundred dollars
right now five thousand five hundred dollars
six thousand right up front now six thousand dollars
six thousand six thousand dollars fair warning
six thousand dollars
to one thousand two hundred sixty thank you
that's a record for a record
no word if the buyer still has a record player so he can hear it
this is friday's biggest seller so far
lot number eight hundred eighteen
a role of the addresses of the presidents of the united states
its conservatively estimated value five thousand dollars
at one hundred ten thousand dollars
one hundred ten thousand dollars
thank you very much one thousand eight hundred twelve
you see everything you've been reading about this sale is true
news media from all over the world have been here all week but it will all come to an end friday afternoon with the auctioning of jacqueline kennedy onassis' nineteen ninety two b. m. w. complete with cell phone and a few dents
b. m. w. makes nicer models but none will sell for more than the b. m. w. in the basement of sotheby's behind me
catherine and lou back to you
all right gary
thanks gary
that should go for about a million
it should at least
well everyone thought coconut harry was a goner and once you hear the story you'll understand why
instead of drowning at sea this light golden is drowning in affection from his relieved and amazed owners
this eighty pound retriever was blown overboard april fourteenth during an outing off key west florida blown into the sea currents
but coconut harry swam and swam five miles in fact to monkey island where he emerged from the ocean dehydrated with sponges and algae clinging to his coat and with the help of a team of scientists the coast guard and the florida marine patrol found his way home
and with us now in cudje key florida is naomi simonelli coconut harry's owner
thanks for joining us today
we want to know first what condition coconut harry is in
we know he's lost about fifteen pounds hasn't he
he is in excellent condition
coconut harry was a real porker so he's trimmed down and he looks good
he was tired
i'll be he was and thirsty too
and thirsty
tell us what happened out there on the day of the storm naomi
well it's such a story
incidentally it was my birthday
this was going to be my birthday boat ride
the sea started getting rougher and i took the dog and put him in the cabin thinking he'd be safer because normally he likes to ride on the bow
i didn't think a thing of it went back up to the bridge about an hour later i went down to get something and the dog was gone
had you given up hope
number
you really thought he would show up somewhere
towards the end of the week but the first thing we did was we got on the marine radio and it was the pouring of help from people in the keys was just unbelievable
the coast guard came twenty five miles the marine patrol came the marine sanctuary people came and just dozens of boaters in the area to look for coconut harry
and the funny thing now is that we concentrated the search in the way the current and the waves were going because the waves were around four foot at this time
the dog pulled and went the opposite way
he actually went parallel to the coast instead of swimming a mile and a half to shore he went five miles against the waves and the current and luckily ended up on lois key which was formerly called monkey island
probably thought it would be a better story that way
yeah i guess so
well we're glad that you got coconut harry back
that's quite a story
yeah it's wonderful
and we hope you two live happily ever after
he's a beautiful dog and a very lucky one at that
he is
thanks for joining us today
thank you
naomi simonelli and coconut harry down there on the keys drinking margaritas
having a good time
glad to get off that monkey island i bet too
nothing to do but chase monkeys there
is flip with us
yes yes yes i'm here
there he is
so what we've learned from this guys is that retrievers golden retrievers are great swimmers
could a network of terrorists be operating on the university of south florida campus
the government apparently thinks so
and tampa officials say a bomb threat hangs over the lives of more than twenty eight thousand students
c. n. n.'s robert vito reports
a small army of police seen and unseen are all over the sprawling university of south florida campus
they are looking for clues any tell tale sign that threats in a unabomber style letter sent to a campus newspaper might be real
yes i think definitely there's a concern any time there's a threat such as this
we communicated with all of the law enforcement agencies and we had the same advice
you've got to take every precaution
the threat made against the university read in part print my letter on april twenty ninth or i'll blow up an administration building and murder a white professor to ward off the threat the university moved final exams up to the week before april twenty ninth
it meant students had one less week to study for tests but few complained
i think the university's response was excellent
police and the f. b. i. say they have no idea who wrote the letter but they say they are investigating a possible link to another event that recently shocked this campus
the revelation was made public in a federal court document
it said that in the upstairs offices of this building a few blocks from campus a u. s. f. professor and assistant professor established a front in order to enable individuals to enter the united states in an apparent lawful fashion despite the fact that these individuals were international terrorists
the offices are now vacant
the united states provides civil liberties freedom democracy
and within the united states the best arena for these organizations to act is in fact the academic world
the f. b. i. is investigating this man u. s. f. professor sammy al arian
according to the affidavit al arian was the chairman of the board of the islamic group and arranged visas for palestinian terrorists to come to the united states to work at the think tank
rammadan abdulah shala was identified in the affidavit as a terrorist
shala worked at the think tank and was a part time professor who taught middle east politics
he left u. s. f. last year
federal sources say he recently surfaced in syria as the new leader of a terrorist group the islam jihad
the affidavit also suggest al arian is linked to subjects identified in the world trade center bombing investigation and who are associates of the individuals who were indicted and convicted in that case
al arian's attorney did not return c. n. n.'s phone calls
as for the university it says the controversy over the islamic think tank is an unfortunate situation that the school is trying to correct
there is no guarantee
it happened here it could happen at harvard it could happen at any other university
meanwhile in response to the threatening letter some roads and buildings will be closed april twenty seventh through the twenty ninth
and no packages or mail will be delivered
robert vito c. n. n. tampa florida
blind folks in five u. s. cities are among the first to enjoy an important new service allowing them to make use of three major national newspapers
now that's thanks to a clever computer system that brings them the news in a new way
dick wilson reports from baltimore
betsy zaborowski is a baltimore psychologist who has been legally blind since birth
she sees about five percent of normal vision and never has been able to read a newspaper
but thanks to a new computerized phone system she can hear any of three major papers on her touch tone phone at home or anywhere
welcome to the new york times
the simple act of reading the newspaper in the morning is something we often take for granted but the information it contains has been unavailable to blind people until now
i use it in the morning when i'm getting dressed in the morning
i have a speaker phone in my bedroom and i'll just punch it in and listen to it as i'm getting ready
i love to use it when i'm exercising downstairs
we have a speaker phone down there
the primary election
mark maurer is the president of the national federation of the blind which has spent half a million dollars on the computerized paper
maurer demonstrated how the system works transforming three major papers into computer voices
for u. s. a. today press one for the chicago tribune press two for the new york times press three
like a voice mail delivery system digital versions of the papers are sent to computers in baltimore by six fifteen each morning
the information is sent on to regional centers where it's converted to computer voices
you can change voice
he surprised me
he was a very nice person very down to earth and
now why might you want to change that voice
you might want to change the voice because it sounds better to you or it may be that you have a hearing disability of some kind that would make it better to listen to a different kind of voice
there are nine different voices to pick from
and the reading speed can be set from slow to fast like this
the system seems much more practical than a braille newspaper since only twelve percent of the blind read braille
the computerized newspaper for the blind also is available now in austin and houston texas as well as minneapolis minnesota and baton rouge louisiana with plans to go nationwide soon
dick wilson c. n. n. baltimore maryland
tired of eating out and paying too much
food lovers are taking meal time matters into their own hands
c. n. n.'s food and health correspondent carolyn o'neil joined in on the fun to find out what it's like to take a cooking class
but you don't want too much otherwise you won't get nice crisp pastry
after patiently watching and learning as chefs expertly demonstrate techniques in the classroom studetns at the la boirin cooking school at the greenbriar get the chance to put their skills to the test
we need this one right
bingo
put the flour and salt into the bowl of a food processor
so dressed for the part in teams of four we set about the task of making three courses including the formidable sounding cobiyets of veal and lobster mousolene in a tarragon burlonq
even the linguine was made from scratch
we're doing lectures and we never really get any feedback from people
they tend to sit and just enjoy what's going on whereas when you're doing this you begin to see a penny dropping that sort of thing
you have to see how it's made in order to do it i think
because i can't read about it and know how to do it
it's a little harem scarum
part of the challenge is cooking things you've never cooked before with people you've just met in a kitchen you've never been in
and there is a lot of work to do from peeling the asparagus to blanching and cracking the lobster to making the linguine dough chopping the fresh herbs and rolling the pastry for dessert
and after four hours of checking a list and moving along it amazingly all starts to come together
beautiful
very nice
i don't know how much should we charge for this
and then of course the taste test
so we gave ourselves an a
carolyn o'neil c. n. n. white sulfur springs west virginia
there's a new old name up on the leader board at the l. p. g. a. this year
no she's not a rookie
in fact she's won several tour events
c. n. n.'s jim huber has her story
she might just be the l. p. g. a.'s most misunderstood player this woman formerly known as dottie mochrie
for she strides america's fairways with a perpetual scowl and should she glance your way and appear to look straight through you don't take it personally
it's just her way
you know i take it as my job
and it's a job i love to do but there are times when people say we looked right at you on the golf course or motioned or whatever and i never saw them
and i mean it's certainly not something i'm trying to do
but i get so intent on what i'm doing on the golf course and what i need to be doing
because o. k. this shot this shot's it
and fortunately i've been pretty blessed to be able to stay focused for whatever length of time it takes to play eighteen holes
she has done that quite brilliantly during her eight seasons on tour winning at least once in each of the last seven years collecting over three million dollars in that space of time
but last year she was playing in pain the kind inflicted by a dying marriage
i think it's actually been a harder transition the beginning of this year than it was playing through it last year
because that's exactly what i did
i just kept on playing and then had some down time and some time to think about all that had gone on
and probably took it on the golf course a little too much
her husband was also her teacher and her caddy for much of their time together
every round was a playing lesson and soon it became too much
the tour helped me out in a lot of aspects in that you know it was kept quiet kept it amongst the staff
and the day it was final it was publicly released and was not released until then
so that helped tremendously
a lot of the issues out here are what we have in society
and we're not any different
and people are they're amazed by what athletes have going on in their personal life because they can identify with it i think
and that's fine
you know i gave them an honest answer and was very up front with everything and a lot of people i think respected me for that
she took back her maiden name she's a pepper again and began the long journey back
oh heck
it was my name
i just decided to take it back
and it was a bit of a new identity and something for me
jim huber c. n. n. sports
but we begin in the middle east
after sixteen days of fighting and a week of urgent shuttle diplomacy secretary of state warren christopher has mediated a cease fire between israel and the hezbollah guerrillas
the agreement bans attacks from southern lebanon into israel using katyusha rockets or any other weapons
and it bans attacks by israel against civilian areas inside southern lebanon
it also bans use of civilian living and infrastructure areas in southern lebanon as launching points for attacks against israel
the agreement calls for the establishment of a monitoring group to track equipment personnel and technology and the establishment of a consulting group to help with lebanon's reconstruction
that agreement is to take effect later today
both israel and hezbollah say they are pleased
we get more now from c. n. n.'s rob reynolds in jerusalem
ladies and gentlemen as they say it's a boy
with a joke israeli prime minister shimon peres heralded the birth of an agreement to end the war between israel and hezbollah guerrillas in southern lebanon
carrying out these understandings will end the katyusha attacks and protect citizens civilians in both israel and lebanon allowing them finally to return to their homes to leave the air raid shelters
the plan is the fruit of intense shuttle diplomacy by secretary of state christopher and is agreed to by israel syria and lebanon
christopher outlined the plan's main points
and second these new understandings explicitly rule out attacks into israel by katyusha rockets or any other kind of weapon
similarly israel undertakes not to fire weapons at civilians or civilian targets in lebanon
third use of civilian populated areas as launching grounds for attacks is explicitly prohibited by the new understandings
the agreement also says none of the points rule out actions taken in self defense an important point for israel
the right of our self defense is not limited
and if our forces are attacked they will return fire
the agreement will be monitored by a compliance committee comprising israel lebanon syria france and the u. s. syrian president hafez al assad the true power in lebanon emerges from the process with his stature greatly enhanced
the plan is also a political boost for peres who's maintaining a slim lead going into israeli elections next month
and the deal represents a triumph of perseverance for warren christopher who spent seven days and clocked thousands of miles bouncing back and forth between damascus and jerusalem hammering out details of the agreement in marathon sessions with assad and peres
operation grapes of wrath lasted sixteen days and cost over one hundred fifty lives the majority of them lebanese civilians
half a million lebanese were driven from their homes by israeli guns while twenty thousand israelis fled out of range of katyusha rockets
much of southern lebanon has been reduced to ruins and northern israel has been bloodied by one thousand hezbollah rocket strikes
christopher says the challenge now is building on the southern lebanon agreement to bring israel and syria back to the conference table for comprehensive peace talks
to that end the u. s. has invited the two countries to a new round of negotiations to begin as soon as possible
rob reynolds c. n. n. jerusalem
there's a new movie out this weekend
the classic cyrano de bergerac wrestled with an emotional puzzle do people fall in love with good looks or a great soul
this same puzzle is given a light hearted treatment in the new film the truth about cats and dogs out this weekend
c. n. n.'s carol buckland reviews this p. g. thirteen rated production
the truth about cats and dogs is a cutely clever movie about contemporary love
janeane garofalo stars as abby barns a feisty veterinarian who dispenses animal advice on a radio call in show
although hardly a plain jane abby suffers from low self esteem appearance wise
she can't help comparing herself to her friend noelle who's played by the tall and tawny uma thurman
i don't expect you to understand this
you know you burp and guys think it's adorable you puke and they line up to hold your hair back
i can tell you for a fact that's not true
one day a charming british photographer named brian phones abby's show for help
right now your dog is feeling very very threatened so if you want to get close enough to take the skates off you're going to have to approach him in the submissive position
i'm sorry
get down on all fours
brian who's played by ben chaplin is smitten by abby's sass smarts and sexy voice
she's intrigued by him too but her insecurity leads her to subterfuge
what do you think i look like
i don't know
if the voice is anything to go by you look great
i'm five foot ten blond thin hard to miss
what happens next is predictable and often implausible but it's also very enjoyable
i'm sorry
it's just you sound completely different on the air
oh
you should hear me in the shower
the stand out in the cast is garofalo
she's a scene stealing delight with a flawless sense of comic timing
michael lehmann's direction is adept and affectionate
he juggles the romantic complications in amusing style
the truth about cats and dogs isn't deep it's basically a big screen sit com
still thanks in large part to janeane garofalo it's a fine film to cuddle up with
o. k. this is a good time to talk about limits
you can love your pets but just don't love your pets
you know what i mean
carol buckland c. n. n.
catherine says this is a movie about a really really dumb guy
only if you can't tell the difference between o. k. it's a movie catherine
let's move on
florida has banned the sale of herbal products that contain ephedrin and at least one manufacturer plans a court challenge
the agriculture commissioner yesterday ordered the pills off of the shelf
he said he's concerned about the recent death of a spring break visitor who took twice as many ephedrin pills than the manufacturer recommended
the florida ban only effects products marketed as a stimulant it exempts diet pills and medications
and c. n. n.'s medical staff has been following this issue and joining us now is medical correspondent andrew holtz
what are some of the problems associated with this
well it can raise your blood pressure
it's a stimulant increase your heart rate so if you have problems in that area this could make them worse
if you have any sort of heart disease high blood pressure problems other things that have been linked to it includes stroke psychosis death and less serious problems including dizziness headache gastrointestinal problems
those sorts of things that can really run the range of problems
florida is calling this an herbal product so what is the difference between an herbal product and then something that is marketed as a drug
it's really there are some very odd distinctions in the law
right now herbal products are regulated by the federal government to a different standard than a drug
the congress specifically gave the f. d. a. authority to only a very limited authority when it concerns something that is a food or something naturally occurring whereas something that is promoted as a drug as a medical treatment has to meet a higher standard
so it's not the chemical itself
the chemical that's in this herb is the same chemical that's in a lot of other stimulants like diet pills very similar to things that are in decongestants
and they carry warnings
yeah there are warnings on those
they can make you dizzy
they can increase your heart rate blood pressure
it's the same drug the same health concern but there are differences in the regulation
here the state authorities are taking a step beyond what the federal authorities have taken
so really this is just about the way it is marketed
if it is marketed as something that will bring on ecstasy and it's an herb they're saying lets not do this anymore
what kind of an effect will this have if any
well since this is a state action in florida it affects only florida and i guess as has been reported there is going to be a legal challenge
so we'll see what happens with it
this is a continuing problem on the national scene
federal authorities say if this were in a capsule and you were making claims that this could cure some health problem we would have some very strict regulations require a strict burden of proof that is safe and effective
but the law is different for natural products so it runs into some very odd contradictions really
but ephedrin is not the only herb drug that people have to worry about
what can consumers do to protect themselves should they walk into a drug store or into a health food store that sells these kind of things
what should you look for
well with natural food products health food products recognize that those are not regulated to the same standard as something sold in a pharmacy
so the responsibility does fall more on the consumer to be informed to know that these products can contain naturally occurring drugs substances that have drug effects on the body so don't just assume that just because something is natural does not mean it's safe
there are lots of poisons that are natural and so since this area is an area that's less regulated consumers have to take more upon themselves to read up too look at warnings
check with their doctor a lot of these things they might simply ask their physician before taking any natural food product
is there anything in here that could be a danger to me
andrew holtz thank you very much for setting that straight for us
we appreciate it
anyone who's ever seen a james bond movie is familiar with the many amazing spy gadgets used and encountered by the fictitious oh oh seven that explosive watch a shaving cream can that converts into a flame thrower a deadly shoe he kept equipped with a poison tipped spike
but that's hollywood
do real spies use such things
let's bring in a man who knows quite a bit about the subject
he's keith melton a military historian and author of the ultimate spy book which i've been going through and have been unable to put down
i guess james bond is probably our biggest hollywood education as far as spies were concerned and i thought perhaps a lot of it was a lot of hooey
i'm going through your book and find a page that says that charles frasier smith is the man who was q. so there actually was a man who did what q. did in the james bond movies
well you're absolutely correct
ian fleming who was the creator of james bond during world war two he assembled the experiences that he would later in his writings
and the real charles frasier smith was the man who developed the clandestined equipment the little tiny compasses that were hidden in buttons the little hidden weapons the interesting devices that helped the secret agents and the spies be successful in world war two
and when fleming wrote the novels of course and ultimately the movie they went to lou allen thomas and they said we want you to recreate this character
and ironically they were very strongly resembled each other
so it was an interesting association with the past
we read about spies in the bible but i guess modern spies are a whole lot different than that
i was reading about the civil war how we stepped into another era of spying in the civil war because of the introduction of photography and the like
i was also surprised to learn that john wilkes boothe had a cipher on him after he was shot which connected him did it not to the confederate secret service
one of the interesting revelations that has come out in recent years of course spies have been around as long as recorded mankind
there's always a need for better intelligence to make good decision
but during the civil war photography was taken to a new limit
and interestingly ciphers are of course necessary because when we communicate we need to somehow keep that information proprietary and keep it from falling into the enemies hands
but in john wilkes boothe's trunk that they found following the april assassination in one thousand eight hundred sixty five they found a ciphered disk that was indeed of the type used by the confederate secret service because boothe had earlier in one thousand eight hundred sixty five been an active participant in a conspiracy to assassinate lincoln but the war ended before the conspiracy ever unfolded
and apparently he acted on his own
but he certainly had the training and the trade craft
well i understand you brought along some spy stuff and i'm after going through your book i'm interested to see what you've chosen to show to us today
well we had a lot to choose from
some of the items that i personally find very very intriguing in the sixties the west german counterintelligence searched an apartment in berlin that they suspected the individual was working for east german intelligence
they couldn't find anything but they noticed a bowl of walnut shells on the table
they took a fluorescent light and scoped them and they noticed that one particular walnut shell glowed in the way it had been seamed back together and pasted together
internally when they opened it up they found and perhaps you can see the tiny one time cipher pad which was what a spy would use as a means of clandestined communication that literally would be unbreakable
and they literally mounted on this little display and it has been here ever since
but it is a wonderful example of concealment as well as excellent communication
that's where martha stewart got that idea
but some other things you might find of interest and actually this one goes back to new york city history
in the early fifties a well known soviet illegal named rudolph abel his real name was willie fischer he used a series of dead drops
and this is a bolt that came from one of your new york city bridges and it appears normal
but when you unscrew it it actually comes apart and reveals a concealment cavity that was used to hide secret messages
a spy is most vulnerable during the time they're communicating
so this is what we call a dead drop
and a dead drop is a means of impersonal communication
you could go to a bridge unscrew this put a message in it or microfilm put it back in and then a day later or a week later someone could come do it
isn't that how john walker got busted
was that the dead drop
absolutely you are correct
the soviet embassy officials are restricted to twenty five mile radius travel radius around washington
and they had created a dead drop literally about twenty four and a half miles out into the suburban area on a remote country road
in fact in the book we even show the exact photographs and the instructions that the k. g. b. provided walker
and that's where he left his final dead drop
the f. b. i. intercepted it pulled it away
walker couldn't find it was frustrated
went back to his hotel and was arrested there
what else you got there
let's see
during world war two very interestingly and keep in mind during world war two most cameras were very large
kodak produced what we call a matchbox camera
and this was a typical size of a matchbox in world war two
but you could effectively hold it and i've just taken a picture of the camera here
and there is a tiny lens
it would not withstand scrutiny if you sat here and examined it but in a party in a social setting standing outside a building no one would have ever noticed that
cameras have been used as effective concealments
one of the ones i like the most is this is a traditional pack of john player cigarettes that i think many people especially in europe have known to recognize with the enameled black box
what the russians did in the early seventies was basically create this pack
it is ostensibly the same to the point that you can actually withdraw a real cigarette from it
but inside what appears to be cigarettes are not
and it's a camera
and you look very carefully you shutter cock it by removing the cigarettes in and out and you've just taken a picture
so effectively you could hold it in your hand
if someone wanted a cigarette you could offer one
but when they aren't looking you could very discreetly just click it and fire away
and inside is a variation of a small camera that the soviets copied from a japanese and it was very effective
and even to this day is a very very fine example of a concealment from that period
i'd like to do more but i'm told we have to wrap this up
but the ultimate spy book is a source endless enjoyment by folks who are fascinated with the spy game
keith melton military historian thanks for coming in and sharing that stuff with us today
thanks for the invitation
you'll never look at household items again the same way will you after looking at this book
tonight does the media have a liberal bias
can they be trusted to tell it like it is
some of you would probably think that if only every fiftieth reporter was conservative it was a sign of a slant
some of you might even think that if they truly believed in affirmative action every news organization would do nothing but hire conservative republicans for a year
why you hire a newspaper reporter is whether or not he or she is a good reporter and has the ability to do a story well and that has nothing to do with the reality
from washington crossfire
on the left bill press
on the right robert novak
in the crossfire eleanor clift contributing editor of newsweek magazine and brent bozell chairman of the media research center
good evening and welcome to crossfire
it's turnabout time in washington
most days reporters enjoy beating up on the politicians but lately politicians have had a field day beating up on the reporters
it all started with a poll released last week by the freedom forum a nonpartisan foundation dedicated to freedom of the press
in their survey sixty one percent of journalists who cover congress identified themselves as liberal and a whopping eighty nine percent said they voted for bill clinton for president in nineteen ninety two
conservative republicans led by house speaker newt gingrich were quick to crow i told you so i unequivocally believe newt told newspaper editors that the core of the news media is biased that the bias is amazing
that same survey of course drew a different response from a white house a white house reeling from stories on paulagate and travelgate and whitewatergate these guys are our friends
with friends like these who needs enemies
so tonight in the crossfire the working press
are they in fact a bunch of closet liberals
bob
eleanor clift our brothers and sisters are out of the closet thanks to this survey
fifty percent fifty percent democrat four percent republican
are you surprised
i'm not surprised but i think this is a very narrow slice of the world of journalism
i think if they'd gone into the boardrooms and checked out those publishers they would have found a few more republicans and if they looked at some of the new people coming into the field they would have seen the impact of the reagan presidency in a growing conservatism on college campuses and if they checked the talk shows or the radio talk show industry they would have found a lot of self proclaimed conservatives
that's if we're talking quotas but i also think there's a difference between who you vote for and what you believe and whether you can be fair and i think journalists meet that test
let me give you one other statistic that bill mentioned in passing and that's in this freedom forum study
this is just lovely
eighty nine percent for bill clinton in nineteen ninety two
seven percent for george bush
remember that in the country at large this big country forty three percent voted for clinton
isn't it isn't that a kind of a disconnect that it's a different kind of people are in our business eleanor and i'm not talking about talk show hosts
i'm not talking about publishers
i'm not talking about the guys who do the mechanical work
i'm talking about news people
maybe there was some self interest there
you know it's a lot better story if you get a change of face in the white house
maybe you're going to find all these reporters are going to vote for bob dole this time
how do you know
now also if you vote for bill clinton that doesn't automatically you know make you a liberal
it may make you someone who didn't think george bush did a very good job on a lot of things and you were voting for change
you know you're making connections that are not necessarily there and if we get to the point where we're going to check out who people vote for and decide whether they can cover a story we're really in trouble
eleanor you can give that story to brent and you can give it to bill press but you can't give it to me because i've been on the trail and i have had a little drinking session with my brothers and sisters and i know they hate republicans they hate conservatives and they love liberals
so this is this is
why
you don't deny that do you
and did they confess that to you over a bottle of perrier because that's what the new generation drinks bob and i don't know that whether you that's what you're drinking these days
not all of them
not all of them
maybe they were just having some fun with you the same way i am
not all of them eleanor
brent let's see if we can really get to the facts here
i mean eighty nine percent does sound like a shocking figure
by the way i want to make it very clear
i'm biased and i'm paid to be biased and i'm proud to be biased
so i
disgusting
it's on the table
i'm proud of it
eighty nine percent
even if they voted for bill clinton do you really think you've studied what these guys write
do you really think that makes them incapable of writing a fair story
where to begin
you know you start this whole program by saying that washington is abuzz by this revelation as if we're talking about anything new here
those numbers that you just cited by the way let me give you a number you didn't cite
you mentioned the number who are liberal
how many reporters are conservative
two percent in this country
two percent of the media
of this survey
of this survey
washington journalists
a hundred and fifty nine answered this survey
washington journalists are two percent
two percent
anyway can they be fair and balanced is the question
i think every reporter ought to strive for objectivity
there's this great mythology it's been around forever about reporters being objective
they're not
you're not
you're not
i'm not
i'm not
here's the difference though
but in their writing are they
that's my question
no they can't be
they can't be
they can't be because human nature being what it is we all have our opinions
that's why eleanor when you were the white house correspondent at newsweek you couldn't be objective
you've got opinions
i mean
wait a second
i was the white house
wait a minute
wait a minute
let me finish
let me finish
let me finish with this caveat
because if i were in your shoes if i were in at newsweek and i had your position i too would strive for objectivity but i would be a fraud if i said i was
i was
i think eleanor needs gets a chance to respond but i've got a follow up for you
i was a white house correspondent for the carter years six years of ronald reagan two years of bill clinton and i would challenge you to point to unfairness throughout
i did about once a month
there is i challenge you and you
but i did
you are not a fair minded media analyst
you are
i have an opinion
a former finance director for patrick buchanan
you are a conservative activist masquerading as a media analyst
so if we're talking about people
i have eleanor
coming out of the closet you should be the first one out
eleanor i have written more words than you
i have published more things than you have
i have every right to call myself a journalist
here's the problem eleanor
all right brent
let me finish here just for a second please
here's the problem eleanor
you know the number was eighty nine percent
if the number were a hundred percent you'd have another caveat on this
it is a patently obvious thing
all right
let's go
why not just say
all right
come on
look brent you start
there's a difference between objectivity and fairness
you start with a
and you can't be totally objective you can be fair and i believe most journalists meet that test
you start with a sorry
you start with a personal attack
i want to go back
i'm not it's not what is the personal attack
i want to go back well you just heard it and you heard the response
no i'm saying i do the same thing
i want to go back
where's the personal attack bill
i want to go back to this topic and get back to the poll
where's the personal attack
where's the personal attack
i want to get back we've been there
we've been there
we've answered it
move on
i want to get back to the poll
i want to show you the rest of the story behind this eighty nine percent and if you look deeper into this you'll see that they did another survey where they asked voters what they think of the coverage
look at this
for example they asked reporters who cover congress do you think there's a bias liberal bias twenty three percent said that
conservative bias
this is
only ten percent
balanced coverage fifty six percent
who are they asking
who are they asking bill
they're asking thousands of voters across the country
this is not the reporters
these are voters
all right
i just want you to make it clear
i thought i did say that and these are secondly they asked voters when you look at coverage of the presidential campaign was there a bias toward the republican or democratic party twenty two percent democratic bias twenty one percent republican bias forty nine percent evenly balanced
so when you look at their product when people look at their product they're saying fifty percent and more that there's no bias showing
what's the next step
what's the next question to that
i'm saying that
number
what's the next question after that
want me to answer it
go ahead
number
you answer my question
they broke it up
they asked the question of democrats they asked the question of republicans who is fair and balanced you didn't mention this answer
democrats pointed to the new york times p. b. s. the networks et cetera as being their examples of fair and balanced media
the republicans pointed to talk radio and rush limbaugh
now the point is that when you talk about talk radio and rush limbaugh you
wait
wait bill
let me get in on this
number
let me
let me finish
let me finish bill
when you mention talk radio and rush limbaugh everybody says no no no
they're biased but if you mention the networks oh no no
they're objective
now wait a minute
wait a minute
bias exists
hey hey hey
hey hey
rush limbaugh's proud of his bias
of course he is
of course he is
this is a serious thing you know
the idea that of course objectivity as you know doesn't have a very good name in our trade anymore
you know the gurus say you shouldn't be objective
you know that
you should be fair
no nobody says that
it's
fair but not objective
right
it's impossible to be totally objective
o. k.
o. k.
we know that
all right
and present fully both sides
then why don't they say that
here's the problem
here is the problem that of this group that was surveyed by the the freedom forum they asked them about the contract with america
how many of you think it's a serious reform proposal three percent
how many of you think it's an election year ploy fifty seven percent
that's bias
that isn't who they're going to vote for
that isn't their ideology
that's a preconceived notion about the biggest political issue of nineteen ninety four
you know when the democrats were in control of congress they got such negative coverage that it led to the republican takeover
when newt gingrich took over the congress there was more serious coverage of public policy and the congress than there had been in my decades in this city and i commend him for that
the contract has flopped famously and so there is some response to the fact that there were some election year gimmicks to it in the sense that they only promised to bring things to vote they didn't promise to pass things and that they raised term limits when many of them really weren't in favor of term limits
that was you know could be regarded as an election year campaign issue
but you've got to say there's a bias against it
i don't think there's a bias
that doesn't change the numbers
it doesn't change the numbers
there's a
there's not a bias against the contract
the contract got heavily covered and it did not fail it did not fail
you sound like
it did not fail because of press coverage
it was a ploy
it failed because people didn't vote for it
we've got to take a break
we've got to take a break and when we come back we'll take a look at another bias by our brothers and sisters in the media eleanor the anti religion bias
there have been a lot of surveys over the years that show that newsrooms tend to vote more democratic than the country as a whole
we also know that editorial pages reflecting the views of the publishers are much more republican than the country as a whole
i think the proof of the pudding is in what people read in the newspapers and i don't find a lot of ideology in newspaper stories
it's not a question of a conspiracy in the press to make conservatives and republicans look bad
i don't believe there's a conspiracy
i don't think very many reporters sit down and say how can i make these guys look bad it is worse than a conspiracy
it's a consensus
welcome back to crossfire
nobody can prove my brothers and sisters in the national news media are biased but we now have evidence that they are liberal democratic and in overwhelming numbers voted for bill clinton
whether this makes any difference is our crossfire between eleanor clift contributing editor of newsweek magazine and brent bozell chairman of the media research center
bill
brent i haven't been in this town long but i'm already developing my own healthy skepticism
i saw two things happen last week with newt gingrich
one there were new ethics charges filed against him and two he attacked the liberal media
you want to look me in the eye and tell me there's no connection between those two events
i think that it's very fair if you're newt gingrich to attack the media
when you look at the studies that have been done say for example from september ninety fourth through december ninety fourth when one organization looked at every single network report on newt gingrich one hundred percent negative on newt gingrich
you name me any politician in history who has received one hundred percent negative coverage
newt gingrich has plenty to beef about
well nixon came close but he deserved it
he didn't get that
he didn't get that
but let me ask you
so last but last year when newt was riding high he was called the most powerful politician in the country more powerful than the president
they were comparing him to f. d. r.
c. span covered his news thing every morning at eight o'clock
i didn't hear a peep out of newt gingrich about the media
you most certainly did
you also heard that he was called the grinch who stole christmas
you heard about the republicans
oh no
he got a free ride
who were going to cut food stamps how they were going to cut benefits for the poor and the elderly and put women and children on the street was what one washington post reporter said
i mean it's this kind of attack that might explain why the contract is where it is today
you don't think there's a little bit of like victimhood that he's playing here
i mean it's sort of like menendez brothers defense you know we're
number
you know bill no bill
i think the problem is
he's not taking responsibility for his own failures brent
no no no
look no question that newt could have done things better
i'm not saying that that's not true but look the reality is that there's a tremendous amount of arrogance and it's been displayed here tonight with reporters in the press when you've got overwhelming evidence of something that's been going back for thirty years and you simply won't acknowledge it
i was under the
you won't acknowledge it
brent
you won't acknowledge it
i was under the impression we weren't bill we weren't discussing newt gingrich but we're discussing
he attacked the media
it's fair to ask for his motivation bob
i was under the impression if you let me finish before i was interrupted i was under the impression that we were talking about the media and the media eleanor you and i may disagree as to how liberal they are but i think one thing you can you and i can agree on on a lot of data that the news media the national news media are far less religious than the rest of america
can you agree with that
i haven't tested the religious attitudes of my colleagues
i don't believe that i should keep track of who goes to church on sunday and who is spiritual in other ways but
let me help you
can i help you
the point is that religion has gotten very good coverage in this country
we have reported about how prime the catholic vote is
the christian coalition has gotten coverage to the point where ralph reed
eleanor i've got
is a household name in this country
i've got to correct this
i've got to correct this eleanor
so we we it is not up to us
eleanor
let her finish her
to prophetize it's not up to us to prophetize for you know various religions but we cover them as news stories and that's entirely appropriate
because i've got some more to go
it sounds very good but let me give you cold hard blooded statistical fact
we have done three annual studies each year looking at forty one thousand network news stories
three years in a row the total number of stories on religion one percent of all network news stories
please don't tell me you cover it a lot
but why do we have
and the other statistics
why do we have quotas for
can i get back into this
and what did education get
and what did environment get
do we have quotas for different stories here
let me give you let me give you
one percent
let me give you an example eleanor
a couple of weeks ago there was a candlelight vigil in front of the white house by the put on by the roman catholic bishops of america to plead for president clinton not to veto the anti partial birth abortion bill and
i read about it
you read about it in my column because you didn't find it
no i read about it i read about it everywhere
i don't read your column
you didn't read my column
not regularly
that's your loss but it
i saw it on television
as a matter of fact eleanor it wasn't in many major papers
it wasn't on any of the networks
it wasn't even on c. span
you had two cardinals of this church
you had about sixty priests
you had about ten bishops
you had
you know bob i
why wasn't that in the pa
first of all
it wasn't in the papers
it was in the paper because i read about it and second of all i don't think there are very many people in this country who are not aware of the fact that the cardinals have lined up
that wasn't news
against the president on this particular veto that he made
that wasn't news
that wasn't when you have two
that's been out there
u. s. a. today
it was covered in the news bob
u. s. a. today had it in three inch headlines
this is no secret in the media
when you have two cardinals mar picketing in front of the white house that is not news
well and we also have pro life demonstrators occupying senator dole's office this afternoon and i don't have
brent let me come back
we'll read about that too i'm sure
let me come back
but when those same cardinals when those same cardinals rallied against ronald reagan's defense buildup they were all over the news and that proves the point
wait a minute
look they were all over the news this time and that's a fact
no they weren't
brent
no they weren't
i'm sorry
that's just not true
i saw them on television
i read about it in several newspapers
brent i want to ask you about
right
same here
what i'm surprised at and disappointed at is the media in this town
nobody's everybody's talking about that one line of that survey
they're not talking about the real conclusion of the survey
i just want to quote from that report
reporters and editors are so cynical about congress that they neglect to give news consumers what they really want more stories about how congressional decisions will affect them isn't that what we should be talking about that it's not liberal or conservative it's that reporters have gone from the skepticism to a real cynicism a negative cynicism
oh that's the liberal
no it's the gotcha
that's the liberal spin
number
isn't it the gotcha technique today
well there's a problem but the greatest cynicism is you looking at a figure that says eighty nine percent are liberal and saying it doesn't mean anything
that's the cynicism
i say show it in the coverage and you can't do it
i've been doing it for nine years
will you answer my question about the cynicism
i mean people conservatives have been proving it for thirty years
will you answer my question
you've made that point three times in this show
will you just answer one question
that's the cynicism bill
it's the cynicism
the cynicism
the cynicism is right here on this show
now brent you come from a particular point of view and unless everybody agrees with you
all right
i'm going to
no eleanor
all i'm saying is
let me follow that up
admit you're as biased as i am
that's all
all right
i want to brent i want to follow
number
i want to ask
i've never been a politician's finance director
one at a time
i've got a follow up
brent american people were asked do you trust your government to do the right thing most of the time or all of the time maybe not at all when jack kennedy was alive seventy five percent of americans said yes today twenty five percent
don't you think you can trace
oh boy
that's the liberal spin
that to the cynicism of the media who feel they have to tear government and all politicians down
isn't that the real problem today in the media
well if you're somebody who supported the contract with america last year you don't consider that the media were tearing down government when republicans were trying to
all right
let me
i think shows the cynicism of the media
earlier
let me get
wes pruden i think said that pol that reporters make republican politicians look bad
you know we make everybody look bad and that is something that we do
we make ourselves look bad mostly
and i think we are responsible for a lot of the cynicism in this country
all right
let me before we get out i want to just say one thing
eleanor the most amazing thing about the freedom forum survey was elaine povich who ran it said that really the reason that these reporters are more liberal is that they have a higher level of ethics and ideals they're more idealistic
now surely than most people
you don't believe that do you
i actually think that people who go into journalism do go in because they want to make the world better and you do have idealists
they want to make it more liberal
all right
on that high note
people who want to make money go to wall street
i'm sorry eleanor
on that high note
i have to correct one thing
i do
i want to sing kumbayah here
we're out of time
wait
number
i do i read his column
i don't read his newsletters
thank you
all right
on that high note we've got to take a break
you hurt my feelings
brent bozell thank you for coming in
eleanor thank you very much for being here
when we come back bob novak and i will put our biases aside and have a calm objective concluding word
coming up this weekend on c. n. n. on evans and novak we'll talk to house budget committee chairman john kasich about the spending agreement for nineteen ninety six and what's ahead for a balanced budget saturday five thirty p. m.
eastern
and on late edition frank sesno's guests will be the dueling chairmen of the political parties republican haley barbour and democrat chris dodd sunday noon eastern here on c. n. n.
bill eleanor didn't know the religious proclivities of our brethren in the media but a george washington university survey was taken in the eighties which showed that eighty six percent of us seldom went to church
you find people who really don't believe in god don't believe that there's a higher being they think that they have their faith in politics
they
bob bob bob
they have a different news message than most america will
bob i disagree so strongly
i don't think it matters whether these reporters go to church
what i think matters is
oh you i bet you don't
that on television and radio and newspapers the media is dominated by right wingers like you
from the left i'm bill press
good night for crossfire
oh gag me with a spoon
from the right i'm robert novak
join us again next time for another edition of crossfire
well today is the last day bidders will have the opportunity to grab something from the jacqueline kennedy onassis estate auction
people yearning to own a bit of history have driven prices into record territory
and as gary tuchman reports day three was no exception
they were one of the two sets of john f. kennedy golf clubs up for sale at the auction
so how much higher than their estimated price of nine hundred dollars would they go
how about nearly eight hundred times higher
macgregor woods and i have fifty thousand dollars again to start this now bidding at fifty one hundred thousand dollars at one hundred ten one hundred twenty one hundred thirty thousand dollars at one hundred thirty one hundred forty one hundred fifty five hundred fifty five hundred sixty five hundred seventy six hundred thousand dollars six hundred ten six hundred seventy five thousand dollars seven hundred thousand dollars that's seven hundred thousand dollars
it's against you sir
fair warning it's seven hundred thousand dollars
all done
seven hundred thousand
thank you both
the winning bidder wanted to stay anonymous
the man who dropped out at six hundred seventy five thousand dollars did talk
i was wanting to go eight hundred thousand dollars
it appeared that the other bidder was going to go to a million so i didn't want to go that high and i just dropped out
a j. f. k. putter was also on the block
yours sir for fifty seven thousand five hundred dollars number
the man with his head in his hands bought the putter on behalf of a friend
he was asked if his friend will use it
i doubt if it will be at home
it'll probably be encased and looked at every day
perhaps the most well known item of the day were the simulated pearls that jackie kennedy so often wore
the estimated value is seven hundred dollars
sold for one hundred ninety thousand dollars
the kennedy camelot mystique is obviously alive and well
more than twenty eight million dollars has now been bid with one day still left
much of the proceeds will go to the kennedy children john junior and caroline
sotheby's officials say they have talked to them during the course of this auction
i would have to say they're surprised and very pleased
more than eleven hundred of the one thousand two hundred ninety eight items in this auction have now been up for bids
the final item will be the biggest the biggest in size if not in price
it will be the nineteen ninety two b. m. w. owned by jacqueline kennedy onassis
gary tuchman c. n. n. new york
well bob we're here now with brian nelson for friday's section of computer connection
and the leading edge
yes and the leading edge this week as well
we're talking this morning about the blind and the ability to read the newspaper or at least get the information that we find in the newspaper
every morning you and i and millions who are watching our show pick up a newspaper to get a pretty good summary in addition to what they hear on c. n. n. of the day's news
but the blind can't do that
well now the blind thanks to computer technology can listen to their morning newspaper and this report was prepared by dick wilson
betsy zaborowski is a baltimore psychologist who has been legally blind since birth
she sees about five percent of normal vision and never has been able to read a newspaper
but thanks to a new computerized phone system she can hear any of three major papers on her touch tone phone at home or anywhere
welcome to the new york times
the simple act of reading the newspaper in the morning is something we often take for granted but the information it contains has been unavailable to blind people until now
i use it in the morning when i'm getting dressed in the morning
i have a speaker phone in my bedroom and i'll just punch it in and listen to it as i'm getting ready
i love to use it when i'm exercising downstairs
we have a speaker phone down there
mark maurer is the president of the national federation of the blind which has spent half a million dollars on the computerized paper
maurer demonstrated how the system works transforming three major papers into computer voices
for u. s. a. today press one for the chicago tribune press two for the new york times press three
like a voice mail delivery system digital versions of the papers are sent to computers in baltimore by six fifteen each morning
the information is sent out to regional centers where it is converted to computer voices
he surprised me
he was a very nice person very down to earth and
you can change the voice
now why might you want to change that voice
you might want to change the voice because it sounds better to you or it may be that you have a hearing disability of some kind that would make it better to listen to a different kind of voice
there are nine different voices to pick from
and the reading speed can be set from slow to fast like this
the system seems much more practical than a braille newspaper since only twelve percent of the blind read braille
the computerized newspaper for the blind also is available now in austin and houston texas as well as minneapolis minnesota and baton rouge louisiana with plans to go nationwide soon
dick wilson c. n. n. baltimore maryland
well isn't that something
now how does this how is this better than say the radio services that provide similar services as well as braille
braille
mm hm
well first of all if you tried to read the sunday new york times by braille it would be huge and it would weigh a ton
the radio services with the radio services you have to be there at an appointed time to hear it
this is a small radio station that might read the newspaper
you have to be there at an appointed time and if the volunteer doesn't show up then you are out of luck that day
with this both those are solved
you can read it at your leisure
you can also chose you have a menu much like the way you and i read a newspaper
you can skip to the sports section skip over a number of items just go to the scores
gives a person a lot more control it seems
yeah
it is really great
now who funds this
national federation for the blind some of its affiliates some state agencies and in some cases volunteers in local cities
and does it cost the consumer anything
not not
no completely free
isn't that great
o. k. what else is coming up on computer connection this weekend
well this weekend we're going to look at our second installment of a review of laptop computers and we're going to look at two of compaq's laptops including one that is a real hot multi media item
another change of technology already
well these are high powered
one is a screamer
oh really
excellent good what time does the show air
the show airs at three o'clock saturday eastern time and it replays again four o'clock a. m.
sunday morning
all right our man on the computing scene brian nelson
thanks for joining us again
thank you much
the nation finally has a budget for what's left of fiscal nineteen ninety six
c. n. n. senior washington correspondent charles bierbauer joins us now from the hill
good morning charles
good morning andrea
now that the job is done is there a reason to cheer
well they've done what they're supposed to do
do we give them a hand for that
they've really taken some of the uncertainties out of things here in washington for at least the next few months and that's on the positive side
but they have not neither in the short nor the long term come close to balancing the budget
oh they've talked about it
i have shown a willingness to work with them and to compromise with them and i've also shown that i am very anxious to reduce this deficit
they've spent hours negotiating over it but president clinton and the republican congressional leaders have not kept their pledge to balance the budget not this year or in seven years
not that they've stopped promising
the next budget which will despite everything keep us on track to a balanced budget in two thousand two that is a remarkable achievement
not yet it isn't
the nineteen ninety six budget now completed does cut spending some twenty three billion dollars from last year
it does lower the federal deficit to one hundred forty four billion dollars
but it only nibbles at what's needed to balance the budget
and on the floor of the senate it was clear why in senator diane feinstein's pie chart of government expenditures
in the future entitlements by the year two thousand three and net interest on the debt alone will total more than seventy percent of the outlays
and senator bob kerrey's pyramid of potential cuts in services if the costs of the big three medicare medicaid and welfare are not tackled
the first question for the citizen needs to be then does that mean you support these deep cuts in education these deep cuts in investment deep cuts in defense deep cuts in law enforcement is that what you're supporting
kerrey and feinstein are among twenty two middle of the road democrats and republicans now proposing their balanced budget plans
it's my belief that nothing is going to get done unless we have a bipartisan approach
theirs tackles the costly entitlements
for that matter president clinton's nineteen ninety seven budget does too
and the republican budget likely to be unveiled next week certainly will
on medicare for example over the next six years president clinton calls for one hundred twenty four billion dollars in savings
the bipartisan senate plan calls for one hundred fifty four billion dollars and the republicans will seek one hundred sixty eight billion dollars
but the republicans and the president laid down these numbers before and failed to close the gap and election year hostility persists
i'm not in favor of opening negotiations until the president of the united states learns to trust the american people and learns to trust my next door neighbor
the republicans seem then in no hurry to take up president clinton's invitation to negotiate again so the balanced budget which is fiscally prudent and publicly popular may be philosophically and politically unattainable at least this year
as for the more immediate step well the president still has to sign that bill and wolf blitzer is at the white house
wolf are they going to make a big deal of this
very low key charles
the white house says that the president in fact may have already signed the current fiscal year budget into law
if not he'll do it shortly after he gets back to the white house
he's out jogging right now
they feel he made his public statements yesterday when he made this little news conference here at the white house that there's no more need this morning to go through the whole thing again so there won't be any formal signing ceremonies here at the white house
wolf might the president have more weighty things on his mind at this point
he's got that whitewater testimony to deliver on sunday
how unusual that is
well that certainly is on his mind
he is going to go to wilmington delaware and philadelphia for some democratic party and campaign related closed door events
but yesterday he spent a good chunk of the day preparing his testimony in connection with the little rock whitewater trial
it is a source of concern to him
he's given some sworn depositions in the past to the independent counsel kenneth star
tomorrow or sunday when he does testify here on videotape behind closed doors he's going to have to make sure he's doesn't say anything that would contradict some of his earlier remarks because then of course he could be held up to perjury
but it is a source of concern
the white house wants to make sure in the short term that videotape is not released and isn't in the words of the president abused by some of his political opponents
o. k.
well thanks very much
we'll be back here later in the hour and we're going to talk a little bit more about the balanced budget prospects with senator john breaux one of the supporters of the bill introduced or the proposal introduced in the senate yesterday
andrea
bob
all right
thank you
that was charles bierbauer reporting live to us from capitol hill with wolf blitzer reporting live from the white house
whether it's around the kitchen table at home or around the congressional chambers in washington the budget is bound to keep popping up in the conversation
c. n. n.'s charles bierbauer brings us a look at the plan by twenty two senators to achieve a balanced federal budget within the next seven years
good morning again charles
i understand you join us with a guest
i do indeed
good morning again andrea
joining me this morning is senator john breaux
he's the democratic senator from the state of louisiana a member of the senate finance committee and one of the prime sponsors of this balanced budget proposal that you were debating and talking about in the senate yesterday
you go after sort of the core of what needs to be tackled to balance the budget entitlements medicare medicaid welfare
how significant how vital is that
charles i think it's very significant
i think unless we get a handle on the entitlement program spending will continue to be out of control
in the very near future we're going to be spending all of our money on the entitlement programs which means there's nothing left for anything else for national defense or for other programs that we have to also support and spend money for
so unless we get a handle on the entitlement programs we're not going to have a serious budget agreement
we think we can do it though
what about the tax component
in every other proposal there's been big tax cut in the republicans' a smaller tax cut in the democrats'
you seem to come in the middle
key elements there
well charles we take the position that most people in the country would like to see congress for a change instead of fighting start working together
and what we have done is try to put together a coalition which has basically offered some compromises
some people think our tax cut is too large
others think it's too small
but we've come right down the middle
it's one hundred thirty billion dollar tax cut about one hundred five billion dollar net tax cut
we think that that's about right
it's somewhere in the middle and i think that it's part of our package and i think people will ultimately be able to come together with a compromise agreement
and the key elements there being capital gains cuts which are big with the republicans a child tax credit of some sort which both sides have proposed
well we think that you have to solve these problems from the center working out and that necessarily means having something that both sides can look upon as part of what they would like to see accomplished
so we have tax cuts for families for children to encourage educational opportunities
at the same time we have a capital gains reduction in order to try and encourage business savings and investments in business
so it's a melding of both parties and hopefully we can expand our group until we get a majority
the other thing that you're going to attract or seem to be is the consumer price index c. p. i. which some people will say hey wait a minute won't that cut my social security benefits or my cost of living
well it's very controversial in the sense that no one seems to agree with what we're proposing except the folks in our group
but it has to be done because currently economists tell us we're overestimating the increases that people get from programs such as social security and retirement benefits by anywhere from zero point seven percent to two percent
so when you said let's make a downward adjustment of about zero point five percent people will still get an increase but it will be more accurately reflective of what they should be getting
and i think the american public is willing to make that small type of sacrifice
now twenty two senators republicans democrats centrists how do you expand that
what reaction do you get when you talk to president clinton to this proposal
well i think it's been very positive
we saw this week the president said there should be a centrist coalition to try to work on these balanced budget problems and that's exactly what we have a centrist coalition half democrats half republicans mostly moderates that have offered something that gets the job done in seven years
we've been encouraged
we've been encouraged by republicans to continue and we're being encouraged by democratic leadership and also the white house
maybe everybody can move toward this package
when does this come to a head
well we'll have to come to the floor in about two weeks with the next budget resolution for the next year
we should have an opportunity at that time to offer our plan
we've got about thirty seconds left
as a democrat as a member of the senate as a member of president clinton's party we're talking a little bit about whitewater
he's got this deposition he's got to give this weekend
how what impact can that have politically
how's it play out beyond the white house
i think most people charles outside the beltway are sick and tired of it
i think only in washington is there still this great interest and activity
it's confusing
people would like to get it over with
the president's deposition i think probably will put it to rest
all right
senator john breaux thanks very much for joining us
senator breaux democrat from louisiana
the issue is budget budget budget as usual up here
our man is charles bierbauer
thanks again charles
enjoy your weekend
i want to die those words and the image of a woman who later committed suicide played on a tape in a michigan courtroom today
this as the jurors in dr. jack kevorkian's assisted suicide heard what the prosecutors hoped they would not hear
let's get the latest from c. n. n.'s detroit bureau chief ed garsten who joins us now from pontiac michigan
ed
that's right lou
the jury got to hear from possibly the most compelling witness of all one of the two women that jack kevorkian is accused of helping to die
marjorie wants who had suffered from severe pelvic pain appeared on a talk show a few weeks before her death
local newswoman dana eubanks had asked her why she wanted to die
because i don't know if i longer
not like this
not like this
what made you
it's kinda like you said i don't leave my house i don't see my kids hardly because they get upset when they do see me like this
and it's ju
eubanks went on to ask her did you consider being re examined she said it's no use
nothing else would help wants's husband who you saw on the witness stand watching that tape was the main witness for the defense for the defense today
he said that wants wanted kevorkian to help her die because she was afraid she would botch the job that she wouldn't die and that she'd be worse off than she was
on the stand now is a psychiatrist who said that both wants and sherry miller the other woman that kevorkian is accused of helping commit suicide she had multiple sclerosis were both very lucid and were not depressed and made their decision in their right minds
well you might be wondering where's dr. kevorkian today he's been in and out of this courthouse in the last week
he left last week in disgust
he showed up one or two times since
he came today he came late stayed for possibly ninety minutes or more seemed agitated in the courtroom left and he hasn't come back
lou
all right ed garston in pontiac michigan
aging is not all in the genes
some other things are more important and according to a study done by the macarthur foundation you can control how well you age
we welcome the director of the macarthur foundation research network on successful aging dr. john rowe
he's president of mountain
sinai school of medicine and the mountain
sinai hospital in new york city
welcome dr. rowe
thank you natalie
so your study concluded that people are largely responsible for their own age how so
well it was previously felt that aging was largely genetic or at least the risk factors for disease
if you asked someone who long they expected to live or how well they expected to age they would tell you about their mother or their father or their brothers
but we've found in our studies that the risk factors that older people have for developing disease were largely not inherited but in fact were due to lifestyle factors
so i'm reading here it says only about thirty percent of the characteristics of aging are genetically based then
that's right
when we looked at some of those characteristics that were associated with the risk of developing say heart disease or stroke such as increases in blood pressure or modest levels of obesity we found that in fact the answer to successful aging is not choosing your parents wisely but is in fact choosing your lifestyle wisely
so then what does that mean exactly
what kind of lifestyle are we talking about
well i think that the second part of these findings that was very exciting is that not only are these factors not inherited but in fact they are things that are modifiable
many of the factors that are associated with the risk of disease have been shown to be reversible by diet or exercise or other kinds of regimens
a second point here is that if we exclude disease and we say o. k. i'm not too worried about getting heart disease or stroke i've controlled those factors but doctor what should i do to maintain my cognitive function so that i don't have a little loss of memory or maintain my physical function as i get older
the macarthur foundation studies that we had performed now have shown us for the first time what the factors are that permit older people to maintain high cognitive and physical function and those factors include a sense of mastery
it turns out that how much self confident people are how efficacious they feel what their self esteem is like has a very important effect on how likely they are to maintain their intellectual function
and how much does it matter that this lifestyle of being positive being physically active being perhaps emotionally secure how much does it matter that you start that at a young age and continue that
is that something that if you just start as an older person is that so hard to
well natalie that's an excellent question and we really haven't followed people throughout the life course but what we did do is we started studying people when they were about seventy five years old and i think the fact that we found these factors which are potentially modifiable were important at that age is a major finding because one of the common myths about aging is that the horse is out of the barn that there's nothing you can do at age seventy five that we should concentrate on fifty year olds or forty year olds
but we're finding and other studies are finding that there are modifiable factors in advanced age that can and should be changed and so we should take a much more aggressive approach to changing the lifestyles of older people
we seem to be taking a different attitude toward aging across this country
what role should society play in helping older people maintain this active lifestyle that could help them so much
well i think that's an essential question because if individuals are going to take a more aggressive role in being responsible for their own old age they can only do that successfully in an environment or a context which is supportive
we need to change society's view of aging
aging is not just an accumulation of doctor visits and disability and death
it is in fact a very productive period for many older persons but in america we have had an ageism which is like sexism and racism it's an innate negative view of the elderly
congress talks about whether we can afford the elderly
we can't not afford the elderly but the most economically effective way of having a large elderly population which we're going to have is to have them age successfully
in sweden for instance to give you a couple examples the red lights are longer to make sure that the elderly people can make it across the street and everyone knows why the red lights are longer
do you think this country is behind many others in its attitudes towards the old
unquestionably
not only our attitudes but in fact our social and national policies
we are desperately in need of a national work force policy for the elderly that recognizes their productivity and doesn't really punish them for part time work et cetera
but i think with the increasing number of healthy successfully aging older people in our society that these attitudes will begin to change
how big of a problem is it the isolation that many elderly people fall into
well it's a very important problem even in people who are not ill
we found that productive activity which we consider part of successful aging we consider there is more to successful aging than just avoiding disease you have to maintain your cognitive and physical function and you need to maintain your engagement in life
the likelihood of maintaining engagement in life is related to how much emotional support you have and so is the likelihood of maintaining physical function
so emotional support turns out to have major biological consequences in older people
and i noted that the study also pointed out that some cognitive functions are performed better by older people than young people
yes certain types of intelligence are actually improved with aging such as verbal intelligence which i guess means this interview would be better next year
o. k. dr. john rowe we'll see you next year how about that
great
with the mountain
sinai school of medicine
thanks for talking with us
thank you natalie
imagine enjoying the wild west without any of the back breaking work the pioneers went through
imagine a place where visitors can ride horses eat pricy food and sleep in really good digs
there is such a piece of cowboy heaven near tucson arizona
c. n. n.'s steve nettleton takes us there
the sun rises high above arizona's sonora desert
the horses are hitched nearby their riders waiting and watching
a lone cowboy approaches packing a six shooter
some cactus and then i got some cactus in my finger
the only outlaws here are prickly swallow and soya cactus
and this cowboy is actually the corral boss for one of the west's oldest working ranches the tonqui verde ranch
this all inclusive resort is about a half hour from downtown tucson
it's just one place that offers ordinary folks a tame version of the wild desert
the guided horseback ride winds through a maze of sagebrush rocks and towering cacti
but it also features a few things you don't usually find in the middle of the desert like a brunch al fresco including eggs biscuits and flap jacks
and once riders finish stretching and their stomachs they return to the saddle and head back to the ranch
while the ride can be rough for some the lodgings at tonqui verde are anything but
rates run between two hundred forty five dollars and two hundred eighty five dollars a person per night but the price includes all meals and activities
today humans aren't the only guests at the tonqui verde ranch
the sonoran desert is also home to many creatures like rattlesnakes scorpions and black widows
ranch operators hope that by bringing people nose to nose with these dreaded creatures they will forget their fears
but for most guests it will likely take more than one get acquainted session before they feel at home with their new fanged desert friends
steve nettleton c. n. n. reporting
an affidavit says the men were worried about an invasion by the federal government
the plot apparently had nothing to do with this summer's olympic games in atlanta as had been previously been reported
starr and mcranie are being held without bond
they'll be back in court next week
and c. n. n.'s national correspondent bonnie anderson has been following developments today in central georgia
she joins us now from crawford county
bonnie
that's right
robert starr and william james mcranie were both arrested in rural georgia this morning by a. t. f. agents who say they had an informant in their midst for about a year
they're both charged with possessing explosive devices and both as you said were denied bond
at the time of the arrest starr was armed with an a. k. forty seven law enforcement officials tell us though he offered absolutely no resistance
mcranie we're told was also dressed in fatigues and a black t. shirt
now according to the a. t. f. they also confiscated numerous components for several pipe bombs
now mcranie lives down this road and as you can see from the sign says trespassers will be killed this is a man who values his privacy
his home is a rundown double wide trailer
around the property and in the back of the pick up truck we saw many pieces of p. v. c. piping which is consistent with the fact that he is a plumber
now according to the affidavit from the informant the informant on april twentieth visited this property and says he saw fuses igniters chemicals and caps and pre mixed explosives
the informant said that mcranie claimed to have enough chemicals to make forty bombs and indeed he had finished bombs buried here on this property
now according to the indictment the informant also said he heard starr say the pipe bombs would be used to defend their rights against the invasion of the government the indictment goes on to say that explosives were moved to starr's property on april twentieth and that on twenty seventh april twenty seventh tomorrow militia members were to meet and then put the bombs together
the bombs would be wrapped with nails for even further fragmentation
starr has been an outspoken militia man over the years and even last year appeared on c. n. n.'s talk back live
and we are a de defensive mechanism just like the fella from texas has said numerous times
in the anti terrorism bill that will pretty much strip the rights not just of us but of anybody that is determined to be a terrorist by the president
it'll strip you of your rights
now neighbors in this area say mcranie was very open about his beliefs
he never kept it a secret that he was militia
he told everybody that he knew that he was militia
what was he what was he striving to attain do you know
well i never really got into all that just he never kept it a secret that he was militia
did he have any kind of practices out here
drills or what not
on the weekends i think they did
we would just hear you know gun fire
we didn't we never saw anything
but we could hear it
both men are due back in court next week capping what the a. t. f. says is a one year investigation
back to you
bonnie do you know how this olympic aspect got reported by some media earlier on in the reporting of this story
we spoke with a few people in this area and they had heard and again i think this was just rumor that one of the men upon his arrest had said something like that
that has not been confirmed by the a. t. f. or the f. b. i.
in fact it's been completely denied
o. k.
bonnie anderson in crawford county georgia
the olympic flame for the summer games in atlanta began its trip from athens greece today
long trip ahead
it was handed over in a miner's land to william payne who heads the atlanta olympic organizing committee
the ceremony took place at the stadium where the olympics were revived in one thousand eight hundred ninety six
the torch will be carried through several cities in the united states before ending up in atlanta july nineteenth
more on this part of the story from c. n. n.'s ann mcdermott
frank kelly is one of the oldest olympic torch bearers but that doesn't mean he doesn't work out each day by walking and by not worrying
i don't have anything to worry about
i think worry is the cause of a lot of disgruntled people and unhappy people
so is he happy
oh i'm the luckiest person in the world i think
but enough idle chitchat he's in training
kelly was nominated for torch bearing duties by colleagues at the united way where he has done volunteer work for decades
so tell us mr. kelly what's your secret
oh early to bed early to rise
allows a man to carry the olympic torch
that's it
you said it
and how's your torch relay training coming along gregory boyle
been doing much
i would say virtually none
but he's not worried he's always active thanks to his community work helping former gang members find jobs by creating businesses to employ them like this silk screening company
it's caring and concern like this that earned boyle his spot in the olympic torch relay
he's like a father to all of us
in fact he's a father to a lot of people
gregory boyle is a roman catholic priest
then there's sally keith a school teacher in compton california a very demanding school teacher a tough lady and yet she touches her students so much so that this one wrote a letter nominating her as a torch bearer
she helps people and she loves people and that is really the basic characteristic of a hero
the olympians will carry this torch which includes a burner device designed by students and faculty at georgia tech in atlanta
don't worry it won't go out
students conducted tests to ensure that
the torch bearers will run a route taking them through forty two states and the torch will be carried by ten thousand torch bearers
frank kelly though won't be running with his torch
he will walk thank you after all in a couple of weeks he has a birthday coming up his ninety sixth
anne mcdermott c. n. n. los angeles
what's in a name
well many millions and millions of dollars if your name is jackie o.
and mine isn't
the big auction of the kennedy onassis estate is coming to a close but not before president kennedy's golf clubs sold for a hefty seven hundred seventy two thousand five hundred dollars
prices are running at nearly ten times their estimates
yikes
a record of the president's inaugural address also fetched a record price a record six thousand dollars for a forty five r. p. m. record
that record part
and c. n. n.'s gary tuchman is standing by live in new york with the very latest for us
gary
well lou and natalie one thousand three hundred items from the life of jacqueline kennedy onassis and we are now down to the last twenty five
by the time this auction is over in about thirty minutes we are estimating a take of roughly forty million dollars
now that compares to the sotheby's estimate before this all started a conservative estimate but it was an estimate of five million dollars
so everyone concerned is going to be making a lot of money
still to come in the next few minutes an auction of one of john f. kennedy's rocking chairs
another rocking chair earlier in the auction got four hundred thousand dollars plus a commission so we're expecting this one to get even more because this is the very end of the auction
the very last item to be auctioned will be the nineteen ninety two b. m. w. that jacqueline kennedy onassis owned
it comes complete with a cell phone and also a dent in the side but whoever wins the car can drive it out this very evening
in a few minutes as a matter of fact as we speak thirteen aaron shikler portraits are being auctioned
now aaron shikler was the kennedy family portrait artist
he became that artist shortly after john f. kennedy's assassination
the first people he painted were the kennedy children
yeah she just felt it was the right time to do them and she certainly did not interfere at all
i came to the house i made studies took photographs of them and worked out this series of little studies of them and then she asked whether i'd be interested in doing a portrait for the white house which hadn't been done yet
there were so many different poses
i mean she could be very cute about it
there was one pose of her reclining on a couch and she looks and says wouldn't this make a wonderful white house portrait but we both knew it could never be
and then after a while she said jack hasn't been painted either
are you interested in doing that and of course i says yes these opportunities don't happen that often
when i showed her the study for it she said i think she had an instinct about the thing and did not want the usual portrait that you see in the white house
and i felt there's a thinking man let's do a portrait of him as a thinking person
after that i did bobby kennedy for the justice department and that was also a posthumous portrait
i have a set of brushes that paint kennedys
all i have to do is there are so many of them that they do their own portraits i only have to get in there and hold them out come these kennedys
now a shikler portrait of jacqueline kennedy onassis is being bid on as we speak
we're not allowed to show you live pictures from inside sotheby's but right now they're at one hundred fifty thousand dollars and the bidding continues
with us now is a man by the name of john loring
john is the design director and a senior vice president of tiffany's
john worked with jacqueline kennedy onassis when she was an editor and you were an author of six books
you worked closely together you must miss her a very lot
i miss the collaboration and the support
she was the kind of person that conveyed such enormous enthusiasm and such excitement really that she could make you work
i'm a little lazy not many people could make me work
jackie could make me work
now john i understand you went into this auction and you successfully bid on something there's an interesting story behind it
well while we were doing our second book called tiffany taste we photographed a picture that she wanted put on the back cover that contained four silver plated drinking beakers that i had bought in a far off marketplace in nepal in the city of bhaktapur
and she had changed the cover of the book just to accommodate these beakers on the back cover she liked them so much
and when we were through using them i saw she really would like to have them so i said well good i'll send them down to you this afternoon
and i could see she was very happy with those and i was very happy that i'd found something she liked
well there they were again in the auction so i said to myself well those were something personal between us that we worked with we both liked and how nice it would be for me to have them back so i have them back but at a rather high multiple of what it cost to get them in the first place
could i ask you what the multiple was
the multiple was precisely two hundred times their original cost
but how do you feel about having them right now
i'm very happy to have them and i think it bears out my new phrase which it is not only more blessed but less expensive to give than to receive
john loring from tiffany's thank you very much for joining us
thank you
just gotten the word right now that shikler portrait of jacqueline kennedy onassis has gone for one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
sociologists may argue why people spend so much money at an auction like this but we can tell you that the kennedy camelot mystique is definitely alive and well
lou and natalie back to you
i'll go one hundred seventy five thousand five hundred dollars on the shikler but that's as high as i go
o. k. gary thanks
don't feel bad if you couldn't afford to bid on camelot this week even the white house found the prices at sotheby's a bit steep
white house bidders were looking for items associated with president kennedy and the white house itself but they could afford only one small drawing an original of an one thousand eight hundred sixty reception in the blue room near the end of the james buchanan administration
the price fourteen grand paid for through private donations
there's an old adage that says waste not want not and now it's being applied to organ transplants
c. n. n.'s john zarrella reports on a girl who will become an organ donor at the same time she becomes a recipient
for more than half her life seventeen year old rondie harris hasn't been able to do the things most people take for granted
i can't get out of bed and i had a tutor because i couldn't go to school
rondie suffered from a life threatening disease that kept her intestines from digesting and absorbing food
she survived on liquids suffering horrible pains and flu like symptoms
doctors plan to transplant new large and small intestines
but during surgery doctors also gave her a new liver even though her own was still good
the donor liver was a better fit with the other new organs
by looking at the entire packaging we have to make much less connection and the concern about the size discrepancy is not a significant issue
and that provided doctors an opportunity to use her liver to give another desperately ill patient a chance at life
it feels really neat to know that i can help somebody else besides myself
liver transplants are fairly common with a success rate of eighty five percent
the survival rate for multi organ transplants is more than fifty percent
i think with this procedure which i could maximize the use of the organs so both the patient who needs the complex transplant and the more simple one can have an opportunity
we were so thankful and then when dr. tzakis came out and asked us if we would give rondie's liver it was it's beyond words
because we know how we feel and then to think that we could help somebody somebody else is wonderful
dr. tzakis thinks this practice will remain rare given the frequency of multi organ transplants
but more importantly he says the first domino liver transplant heightens awareness of organ donation
for every donor there are about a dozen people at least that can benefit
like rondie
i hope just to you know again maybe make something out of my life
just to show that i'm thankful for the donor
john zarrella c. n. n. miami
for legal purposes it's the words that matter when president clinton gives his videotape deposition in the whitewater case
but from a political perspective the pictures may be equally important
the potential prospect of using the videotape in a negative campaign ad seems a republican dream come true
it is surely giving democrats nightmares as our wolf blitzer reports
it's something the president is not looking forward to testifying about whitewater much of sunday afternoon on videotape at the white house
one aide says it's like a root canal something you dread doing but eventually have to do
james mcdougal the president's former whitewater partner who's on trial in little rock arrived in washington to attend the closed door testimony
he's asked the president to back up his version of events and the court ordered the president to appear
white house officials recognize the stakes both legal and political are enormous but they express confidence the american public won't be confused
the understand what the situation is
this is all politics and it will be evaluated as such by the american people
aides say they're not overly concerned about the legal aspects
they don't think independent counsel kenneth starr will have a case against either the president or the first lady
what worries them more are the political issues that the president's critics will try to exploit
this president for whatever reason has a higher level of perception among the voters that he doesn't tell the truth of any president we've seen so clearly if that perception is reinforced when this incident is all over it will have a political risk for the president
political conservative activist floyd brown architect of the nineteen eighty eight willie horton ad says he's considering going to court to get the entire videotape
i think first and foremost we have to make sure the american people know the information in the tape and they will look at in terms of the use in the political campaign
that's why the white house is asking the judge not to release the videotape
they're asking that he release a transcript instead
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony but that it shouldn't be abused in any way
and the president's supporters say the republican effort to exploit this issue could easily backfire
people see the entire republican party as being obsessed in a sick and partisan way with a land deal that lost money and they have been going on and on and on and the people of the united states are saying shut up
there's nothing there
just shut up and the more they talk i think the better it is for us
it's not the first time a president has been ordered to testify in a criminal trial but it is the first time for this president
wolf blitzer c. n. n. the white house
the president may want to spend some time reviewing a memo sent to some key republicans on the hill as well as its political implications
that's what our brooks jackson has been doing
brooks
well judy you don't see things like this in writing very often even in the rough and tumble world of washington politics
the house republican leadership formally asked its committee chairmen and subcommittee chairman to deliver up election year dirt on the democratic white house
dated tuesday the memo asks for information from house committee files on the following subjects waste fraud and abuse in the clinton administration
influence of washington labor union bosses
corruption
examples of dishonesty or ethical lapses in the clinton administration
the memo is marked urgent and it said we need this information as soon as possible no later than the close of business friday that's today
a spokeswoman for speaker newt gingrich defended the memo saying congress has a constitutional duty to oversee the use of taxpayer's money by the administration
newt believes it is a legitimate role for us
he just feels we should be a little more aggressive in this area aides say gingirch feels republican committee chairmen have been lax when it comes to digging into the clinton administration
it pointed the way democratic congressman john dingell used committee investigators to dig into the reagan administration and say this memo is part of an effort to get republican committee chairmen moving
judy
all right brooks jackson thanks
there is a lot of talk these days about would be vice presidents but our bill schneider has been thinking about the job itself and the man who currently holds it
bill
well judy you know the rule for vice presidents is the same as the rule for small children
they should be seen and not heard
after all they can say the most embarrassing things
remember day quayle
maybe someday they will grow up and make something of themselves but until then no one takes them too seriously
well if that's the rule for vice presidents al gore is a very precocious child
people are supposed to make jokes about the president everybody knows that even the vice president
how can you tell al gore from a roomful of secret service agents
he's the stiff one
his job is to be a cheerleader for the president
my number one objective is to do everything i possibly can to help president clinton be the best president possible and he's doing a magnificent job
yay team
occasionally he's the president's attack dog
that is precisely what the republican leadership of newt gingrich and bob dole are doing throwing up smoke screens to hide their own poor record on crime with cheap charges about the president's judicial appointees
grr
but al gore has become an unusually influential vice president
he plays a key role in the clinton administration's political decisions
just this month gore engineered the appointment of the new commerce secretary as well as the new budget director and acting trade representative
why has gore become so prominent
because he embodies the idea of a new democrat
he is the czar of reinventing government
the key is this through reinvention we have cut government and not vital services to the american people
remember gore ran for president as a new democrat back in nineteen eighty eight
he was a moderate tough on crime strong on defense and the candidate of the democratic leadership council
clinton put him on the ticket in nineteen ninety two to reinforce his own image as a new democrat no more michael dukakises
if gore is the new democrats side of president clinton first lady hillary rodham clinton is the liberal side
since mr. clinton intends to run for reelection as a new democrat gore is up and hillary is down
but gore also has enormous credibility on the environmental issue and that too is proving very valuable to the president
there they were this week on earth day like two guys out of a dockers ad clearing debris from a flood damaged canal
congressional republicans are vulnerable on their environmental records and they know it
on monday gore laid down a challenge
there is a very simple litmus test to determine whether or not their alleged conversion on the environment is real or phony
the litmus test is whether or not they are willing to drop these riders that hurt the environment that are part of the appropriations process
on wednesday the republicans backed down
they allowed the riders to be dropped or modified
with that a budget deal was finally made
but gore may have scored his biggest victory when his long time aide peter knight was named campaign manager this week for the clinton gore reelection efforts
so what is this area right here
political and delegate functions
political and delegate
o. k.
it's pretty well staffed up too
knight will help the vice president collect favors and build a network of supporters
for what purpose
could it be that mr. gore still has presidential ambitions say in four years
well it says so in the new york times mr. gore is meticulously laying the foundation for his own bid for the white house for the record gore isn't talking
i really don't have any comment on it
but if the thought ever does occur to mr. gore that maybe just maybe he might run for president he couldn't do much better to position himself than he did this week on issues and on organization
that's no joke it's the vice presidential play of the week
now vice presidents often do get nominated for president because they have a claim on party loyalty
look it worked for richard nixon hubert humphrey walter mondale and george bush
in the general election however voters usually have trouble seeing a vice president as his own man
george bush was the first incumbent vice president to go to the white house in more than one hundred fifty years
if clinton wins reelection al gore may hope to become the second but a lot will depend on whether when he leaves office bill clinton is as popular as ronald reagan was
judy
hm very clever
bill schneider thanks
dole has had such a bad week i don't think we're going to pile on him
well that quote comes from white house press secretary mike mccurry granting bob dole a temporary democratic reprieve since he has been so criticized by republicans
but moments after uttering those words and saying that he feels sorry for dole mr. mccurry noted the political tide can turn very quickly
he cautioned against jumping to november conclusions based on april polls
well mike mccurry joins us now from the white house
thanks for being with us
yeah
it's a good reminder isn't it the president saying the other day we all want to remember greg norman's story because people can blow a lead pretty quickly
well what did you mean when you said bob dole's had a bad week
i was just thinking
i mean everything time i pick up a newspaper i see some other republican strategist or poobah giving him a hard time
and i felt sorry for him
i think democrats have found ourselves in those positions sometimes
don't you think just to make the comment was a little bit of piling on yourself
no i was just i was trying to be kinder and gentler down here on a day that otherwise we'd be doing business like balancing the budget and doing things that we ought to be doing
well if senator dole had a bad week the president has a little bit of an unpleasant weekend coming up with his testimony in the whitewater trial testimony on videotape
why
why
will there be anything new mike mccurry that the president's going to say in these supposedly hours of testimony that he's going to make
i don't have any idea
i mean he will be you know he's happy to participate in the session
he's been asked by the defense to see if he can be of help to their case and he's going to do that
you've talked to some of the lawyers in the white house is it your sense that there's going to be news from them
i don't really work on that issue because the president's lawyers do
and he's going to do it and then he has to go off sunday night
he'll be giving a speech to a. p. a. c. and talking about some of the developments in the middle east
the president said yesterday when he talked to reporters in the white house the facts are plain for all to see with regard to special counsel kenneth starr
was he saying that he agrees that mr. starr's outside legal interests do present a potential conflict
i think that spoke for itself
can you add anything to it
nope
well let me ask you about the story that brooks jackson just reported of us a few minutes ago and that's this report from house republican leadership a memo that went out to all the house committee chairs and subcommittee chairs asking them to come back with any dirt that they could find on the administration
are they going to be able to find just as an example examples of dishonesty or ethical lapses in the clinton administration
no i think they sent out this very highly political search warrant you know misusing their own public trust because there's nothing to find
and that's why they're urgently scrambling for something they can use against bill clinton and that's the reason why they're resorting to this tactic
i noticed that the speaker's office is defending this as a legitimate exercise of their constitutional responsibilities
that's a stretch
well that's what i wanted to ask you
the spokeswoman for the speaker said they have a constitutional duty to oversee the use of taxpayer funds by the administration
well they do
but if anyone wants to claim that that memo represents anything other than nasty rank politics i'd like him to see him make i'd like to see them make that case
one of the things that we know that bob dole has already been making an issue are the president's judicial appointments
we've learned today that the republicans are planning to run an ad in a newspaper in miami on monday
this is the day the president's there to speak to a fund raising event
this ad is going to make the point that federal judgeships for sale it's going to mention charles stack
how do you all respond to something like this
well the most important thing for americans to know is that the federal judges appointed by the president on average have been giving longer sentences to those who have committed crimes
and secondly and most importantly of the one hundred eighty five judges that bill clinton has nominated bob dole has voted for one hundred eighty two of them so what's his problem
so when they run an ad like that what can you all do to come back
we just tell the record about exceptional qualifications of the judges the president has nominated the good work they're doing the longer sentences they're giving to criminals to keep them behind bars
and the fact that bob dole by and large supports all those judges
the new york times what was that
it's pretty straightforward
the new york times editorialized today on the budget agreement and said that the president won the political war and the public relations war but that the republicans won the policy war because they knocked more than twenty five billion dollars out of domestic discretionary spending
well the important thing that is however significantly you want to treat it the important thing is that in nineteen ninety three we started this country on the pathway of reducing the deficit
we cut the deficit in half in the first two years first three years of the president's term
and we did so frankly without any republican support whatsoever
now we have to build on that and balance the budget all the way
it's significant that we are making additional cuts
frankly it's also significant that some of the president's priorities were addressed in the agreement that they reached
but it's an example of how you can work together in a bipartisan way to get things done
and frankly that's what the president wants to be doing now
there's plenty of time for politics and campaigning and charges and newspaper advertisements and nasty memos in the fall
what we ought to be doing right now is balancing the budget taking care of this need to extend affordable health insurance to americans who don't have it
we ought to reform welfare and get on with that business
that's what people want us to do
if we didn't know better we'd think it was an election year
mike mccurry press secretary of the president thank you for being with us
you're welcome
for legal purposes it's the words that matter when president clinton gives his videotape deposition in the whitewater case
but from a political perspective the pictures may be equally important
the potential prospect of using the videotape in a negative campaign ad seems a republican dream come true
it is surely giving democrats nightmares as our wolf blitzer reports
it's something the president is not looking forward to testifying about whitewater much of sunday afternoon on videotape at the white house
one aide says it's like a root canal something you dread doing but eventually have to do
james mcdougal the president's former whitewater partner who's on trial in little rock arrived in washington to attend the closed door testimony
he's asked the president to back up his version of events and the court ordered the president to appear
white house officials recognize the stakes both legal and political are enormous but they express confidence the american public won't be confused
so they understand what the situation is
this is all politics and it will be evaluated as such by the american people
aides say they're not overly concerned about the legal aspects
they don't think independent counsel kenneth starr will have a case against either the president or the first lady
what worries them more are the political issues that the president's critics will try to exploit
this president for whatever reason has a higher level of perception among the voters that he doesn't tell the truth of any president we've seen so clearly if that perception is reinforced when this incident is all over it will have a political risk for the president
political conservative activist floyd brown architect of the nineteen eighty eight willie horton ad says he's considering going to court to get the entire videotape
i think first and foremost we have to make sure the american people know the information in the tape and then we'll look at in terms of use in the political campaign
that's why the white house is asking the judge not to release the videotape
they're asking that he release a transcript instead
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony but that it shouldn't be abused in any way
and the president's supporters say the republican effort to exploit this issue could easily backfire
people see the entire republican party as being obsessed in a sick and partisan way with a land deal that lost money and they have been going on and on and on and the people of the united states are saying shut up
there's nothing there
just shut up and the more they talk i think the better it is for us
it's not the first time a president has been ordered to testify in a criminal trial but it is the first time for this president
wolf blitzer c. n. n. the white house
dole has had such a bad week i don't think we're going to pile on him
well that quote comes from white house press secretary mike mccurry granting bob dole a temporary democratic reprieve since he has been so criticized by republicans
but moments after uttering those words and saying that he feels sorry for dole mr. mccurry noted the political tide can turn very quickly
he cautioned against jumping to november conclusions based on april polls
well mike mccurry joins us now from the white house
thanks for being with us
yeah
it's a good reminder isn't it the president saying the other day we all want to remember greg norman's story because people can blow a lead pretty quickly
well what did you mean when you said bob dole's had a bad week
i was just thinking
i mean everything time i pick up a newspaper i see some other republican strategist or poobah giving him a hard time
and i felt sorry for him
i think democrats have found ourselves in those positions sometimes
don't you think just to make the comment was a little bit of piling on yourself
no i was just i was trying to be kinder and gentler down here on a day that otherwise we'd be doing business like balancing the budget and doing things that we ought to be doing
well if senator dole had a bad week the president has a little bit of an unpleasant weekend coming up with his testimony in the whitewater trial testimony on videotape
why
why
will there be anything new mike mccurry that the president's going to say in these supposedly hours of testimony that he's going to make
i don't have any idea
i mean he will be you know he's happy to participate in the session
he's been asked by the defense to see if he can be of help to their case and he's going to do that
you've talked to some of the lawyers in the white house is it your sense that there's going to be news from them
i don't really work on that issue because the president's lawyers do
and he's going to do it and then he has to go off sunday night
he'll be giving a speech to a. p. a. c. and talking about some of the developments in the middle east
the president said yesterday when he talked to reporters in the white house the facts are plain for all to see with regard to special counsel kenneth starr
was he saying that he agrees that mr. starr's outside legal interests do present a potential conflict
i think that spoke for itself
can you add anything to it
nope
well let me ask you about the story that brooks jackson just reported of us a few minutes ago and that's this report from house republican leadership a memo that went out to all the house committee chairs and subcommittee chairs asking them to come back with any dirt that they could find on the administration
are they going to be able to find just as an example examples of dishonesty or ethical lapses in the clinton administration
no i think they sent out this very highly political search warrant you know misusing their own public trust because there's nothing to find
and that's why they're urgently scrambling for something they can use against bill clinton and that's the reason why they're resorting to this tactic
i noticed that the speaker's office is defending this as a legitimate exercise of their constitutional responsibilities
that's a stretch
well that's what i wanted to ask you
the spokeswoman for the speaker said they have a constitutional duty to oversee the use of taxpayer funds by the administration
well they do
but if anyone wants to claim that that memo represents anything other than nasty rank politics i'd like him to see him make i'd like to see them make that case
one of the things that we know that bob dole has already been making an issue are the president's judicial appointments
we've learned today that the republicans are planning to run an ad in a newspaper in miami on monday
this is the day the president's there to speak to a fund raising event
this ad is going to make the point that federal judgeships for sale it's going to mention charles stack
how do you all respond to something like this
well the most important thing for americans to know is that the federal judges appointed by the president on average have been giving longer sentences to those who have committed crimes
and secondly and most importantly of the one hundred eighty five judges that bill clinton has nominated bob dole has voted for one hundred eighty two of them so what's his problem
so when they run an ad like that what can you all do to come back
we just tell the record about exceptional qualifications of the judges the president has nominated the good work they're doing the longer sentences they're giving to criminals to keep them behind bars
and the fact that bob dole by and large supports all those judges
the new york times what was that
it's pretty straightforward
the new york times editorialized today on the budget agreement and said that the president won the political war and the public relations war but that the republicans won the policy war because they knocked more than twenty five billion dollars out of domestic discretionary spending
well the important thing that is however significantly you want to treat it the important thing is that in nineteen ninety three we started this country on the pathway of reducing the deficit
we cut the deficit in half in the first two years first three years of the president's term
and we did so frankly without any republican support whatsoever
now we have to build on that and balance the budget all the way
it's significant that we are making additional cuts
frankly it's also significant that some of the president's priorities were addressed in the agreement that they reached
but it's an example of how you can work together in a bipartisan way to get things done
and frankly that's what the president wants to be doing now
there's plenty of time for politics and campaigning and charges and newspaper advertisements and nasty memos in the fall
what we ought to be doing right now is balancing the budget taking care of this need to extend affordable health insurance to americans who don't have it
we ought to reform welfare and get on with that business
that's what people want us to do
if we didn't know better we'd think it was an election year
mike mccurry press secretary of the president thank you for being with us
you're welcome
the president may want to spend some time reviewing a memo sent to some key republicans on the hill as well as its political implications
that's what our brooks jackson has been doing
brooks
well judy you don't see things like this in writing very often even in the rough and tumble world of washington politics
the house republican leadership formally asked its committee chairmen and subcommittee chairmen to deliver up election year dirt on the democratic white house
dated tuesday the memo asks for information from house committee files on the following subjects waste fraud and abuse in the clinton administration
influence of washington labor union bosses
corruption
examples of dishonesty or ethical lapses in the clinton administration
the memo was marked urgent and it said we need this information as soon as possible no later than the close of business friday that's today
a spokeswoman for speaker newt gingrich defended the memo saying congress has a constitutional duty to oversee the use of taxpayer's money by the administration
newt believes it is a legitimate role for us
he just feels we should be a little more aggressive in this area aides say gingirch feels republican committee chairmen have been lax when it comes to digging into the clinton administration
it pointed the way democratic congressman john dingell used committee investigators to dig into the reagan administration and say this memo is part of an effort to get republican committee chairmen moving
judy
all right brooks jackson thanks
whether or that g. o. p. expedition digs anything up the republican national committee is set to launch an eight to twenty million dollar ad campaign against the president and his party
c. n. n. has learned that t. v. and radio spots will start running in mid may in battleground states
the ads will address issues including crime and welfare with what republicans describe as character as an underlying theme
first lady hillary rodham clinton seems to be expecting the worst when it comes to the other side's tone in campaign ninety six
speaking today before emily's list the political action committee that helps raise funds for women candidates she offered this prediction
that in the next months what will occur in desperation by those on the other side is a relentless attack of negative advertising
it will be both filling the airwaves and below the surface of the radar screen where there'll be lots of those telephone operations we read about in the republican primary where people are called and basically given information that slanders opponents
ross perot says personal attacks on the first lady and her husband must stop
in an interview with david frost to be aired tonight on p. b. s. the former presidential candidate says anyone who abused a pet in a similar fashion would be arrested
in addition to repeating his unsubstantiated allegation that one of the major political parties asked him to fund a dirty tricks campaign two years ago perot uses the interview to make this claim about the bush team in the ninety two election
fact
at the highest levels in the bush campaign in the last few weeks of the campaign with names that you would recognize instantly they were begging me for heaven sakes stay in the race so that clinton doesn't win by a landslide they knew
they knew that clinton was going to beat them and it was just a question about how much
there is word that allegations of illegal contributions to the dole presidential campaign are under investigation by a federal grand jury
according to the kansas city star complaints about moneys donated by the massachusetts based aqua leisure industries are being probed by a panel in boston
neither the u. s. attorney's office boston nor aqua leisure is commenting
the sporting goods company is run by simon fireman the dole campaign's national vice chairman for finance
there is a lot of talk these days about would be vice presidents but our bill schneider has been thinking about the job itself and the man who currently holds it
bill
well judy you know the rule for vice presidents is the same as the rule for small children
they should be seen and not heard
after all they can say the most embarrassing things
remember dan quayle
maybe someday they will grow up and make something of themselves but until then no one takes them too seriously
well if that's the rule for vice presidents al gore is a very precocious child
people are supposed to make jokes about the president everybody knows that even the vice president
how can you tell al gore from a roomful of secret service agents
he's the stiff one
his job is to be a cheerleader for the president
my number one objective is to do everything i possibly can to help president clinton be the best president possible and he's doing a magnificent job
yay team
occasionally he's the president's attack dog
that is precisely what the republican leadership of newt gingrich and bob dole are doing throwing up smoke screens to hide their own poor record on crime with cheap charges about the president's judicial appointees
grr
but al gore has become an unusually influential vice president
he plays a key role in the clinton administration's political decisions
just this month gore engineered the appointment of the new commerce secretary as well as the new budget director and acting trade representative
why has gore become so prominent
because he embodies the idea of a new democrat
he is the czar of reinventing government
the key is this through reinvention we have cut government and not vital services to the american people
remember gore ran for president as a new democrat back in nineteen eighty eight
he was a moderate tough on crime strong on defense and the candidate of the democratic leadership council
clinton put him on the ticket in nineteen ninety two to reinforce his own image as a new democrat no more michael dukakises
if gore is the new democrats side of president clinton first lady hillary rodham clinton is the liberal side
since mr. clinton intends to run for reelection as a new democrat gore is up and hillary is down
but gore also has enormous credibility on the environmental issue and that too is proving very valuable to the president
there they were this week on earth day like two guys out of a dockers ad clearing debris from a flood damaged canal
congressional republicans are vulnerable on their environmental records and they know it
on monday gore laid down a challenge
there is a very simple litmus test to determine whether or not their alleged conversion on the environment is real or phony
the litmus test is whether or not they are willing to drop these riders that hurt the environment that are part of the appropriations process
on wednesday the republicans backed down
they allowed the riders to be dropped or modified
with that a budget deal was finally made
but gore may have scored his biggest victory when his long time aide peter knight was named campaign manager this week for the clinton gore reelection efforts
so what is this area right here
political and delegate functions
political and delegate
o. k.
it's pretty well staffed up too
knight will help the vice president collect favors and build a network of supporters
for what purpose
could it be that mr. gore still has presidential ambitions say in four years
well it says so in the new york times mr. gore is meticulously laying the foundation for his own bid for the white house for the record gore isn't talking
i really don't have any comment on it
but if the thought ever does occur to mr. gore that maybe just maybe he might run for president he couldn't do much better to position himself than he did this week on issues and on organization
that's no joke it's the vice presidential play of the week
now vice presidents often do get nominated for president because they have a claim on party loyalty
look it worked for richard nixon hubert humphrey walter mondale and george bush
in the general election however voters usually have trouble seeing a vice president as his own man
george bush was the first incumbent vice president to go to the white house in more than one hundred fifty years
if clinton wins reelection al gore may hope to become the second but a lot will depend on whether when he leaves office bill clinton is as popular as ronald reagan was
judy
seen but not heard hm
this has not been the best of weeks for bob dole
he's fielded a lot of flack much of it from members of his own party
some in his position might tell his critics to take a hike
the g. o. p. presidential hopeful went for a walk instead
our bruce morton looks at dole's little stroll and its potential campaign meaning
go for the tenth amendment
send it back to the states
let the states decide it
tough duty sometimes on the floor of the senate
tough living in a feverish city where one pundit or another says your campaign is terminal every fifteen seconds or so
ball four
yesterday after a budget press conference bob dole found a cure for the doledrums he walked over to a crowd of tourists met real people
they liked him
go bob dole
go bob dole
this is when campaigning is fun
where you all from
indiana
he met some kansans
well ex kansans
oh great
where do you live now
illinois
chicago
oh you moved huh
i got an election and you all moved
it's so we can vote for you again
he posed for pictures
he signed autographs
he met more voters
i met another kansan over there by they moved about twenty years ago
meet this guy from florida congressman foley right here
mark foley
they're from topeka kansas
great
excellent
we're going all the way to the white house
he's going to be the next president
he was even kidding the cameraman
am i going too fast
well he hasn't had any trouble
look at him
he going of course he isn't carrying anything
for candidates tired of pundits and gloom this is good for what ails you
pardon
i said kick back bob
he may go walking every day now
bruce morton c. n. n. washington
the unabomber case
tonight the hunt to find the unabomber
we go inside the unabom task force in an exclusive interview
can they make the case against suspect theodore kaczynski stick
next on larry king live
now sitting in for larry king here's arthur kent
good evening and thanks for being with us
larry king has the night off
it took eighteen years for the u. s. government to find the man they believe to be the unabomber and the government is taking its time to build a case against that man suspect theodore kaczynski
our first guest this evening has worked for more than a decade to bring the unabomber to justice
former postal inspector tony muljat just retired from the unabom task force
he was one of the first investigators on the case and joins us in washington
tony congratulations on your retirement
thank you
how are you enjoying your first days of retirement
very good
i am looking forward to better times down the road
well you've had a finale a professional finale like few other people successful hopefully and to an investigation that has lasted some eighteen years and ten years for you
right
what does it mean in your life to be focused so intensely on an investigation of this kind for ten years after all of your life
well it you know you get sometimes emotionally involved in the case and that's exactly what i did
it was of interest to me to be sure that a case of this nature as complex as it is would come to a successful conclusion and we hope that that is what it is going to be
yeah tell us how did you first get involved in this investigation
well back in nineteen eighty five when the device in cory hall went off injuring john hauser i was asked to come down and to assist the f. b. i. there at the berkeley campus
that was the university of california in berkeley
correct right
and your role was as a postal inspector
you are concerned with the abuse of the postal system
well this device was placed in berkeley
however there was a previous device back in nineteen eighty that was mailed and that's our jurisdiction really
it's the use of the mails to get that device from one place to the other
it was that was our violation and then we were aware that the previous devices were also associated so everybody was working together
now a lot of us aren't aware of this but as a postal inspector you are really a detective a gumshoe for the postal service
you carry a gun
correct
you have powers of arrest
arrest search and seizure correct
yep
but this had to be a different kind of a case for you
it was
it certainly was
generally speaking bomb cases as far as the inspection service is concerned are generally not that difficult to solve because generally the recipient of the device has a pretty good idea who who could have done this or sent this
and then based upon that you have a starting point but in this particular case we didn't know why
that was one of the unabomber's pieces of left luggage the surprise box that what
the unabomber had planted left behind
well it in the berkeley device it was actually placed in the in cory hall in the computer room located there in cory hall itself
it was placed not mailed
now nineteen eighty five you walk in on this investigation
did you know that you were becoming part of what would be the longest investigation in the history of the f. b. i.
no i sure didn't
you know when i walked in getting a little bit of the background from what i knew of it i certainly didn't think it was going to last until nineteen ninety six for me at least anyway
now theodore kaczynski a loner living in the depths of the woods of montana were you in on the last three months of the investigation this year
yes i was
sure
yes
triggered as frequently happens we're told in investigations of this type by a tip
in this case from the family of the suspect
mm hm
david kaczynski
right
the brother of the of the suspect
what went through your mind when you were first told that there was a hot lead on this case
well it was certainly something that the task force was certainly looking for
cases of this nature surely are difficult to solve and certainly a little bit of luck on your side doesn't doesn't hurt
so having received that information like any other information that we had received in the past we did what we had to do and corroborated the information provided to the task force
but here again a most unusual situation
it went on for months didn't it
correct
the observation of the cabin staking out of a wilderness location
yes
yes
what was going through your mind that day when finally it came down to an arrest
well certainly everybody on the on the task force was hoping that the search of the cabin would provide to us things that we needed forensically to associate the components of the previous bombs and that which we had recovered at crime scenes so it could at some point be compared to whatever was found in the in the cabin in montana
your heart must have been beating fast
my heart was beating fast correct
it was
now you received a very special kind of memento didn't you upon your retirement
i did
yes
from some of the friends on the unabom task force right
and and what exactly maybe we could we could take a look here is this
yes this was
a plaque
yes
sort of a retirement plaque not unusual at the end of a career but this one most unusual
right
it's the actual handcuffs that were used in the handcuffing of theodore kaczynski on april third nineteen ninety six
and it reads i don't know whether our audience at home can read it presented to inspector tony muljat grateful appreciation from your friends on the san francisco unabom task force
and of course a photograph here showing this is a bit more difficult to see the suspect being handcuffed
where was that where did that take place
this was in another location taken in montana away from ted's cabin
and i'd like to identify these f. b. i. agents
this is agent mcdaniel and this is max dole who is a real good friend of mine and we worked closely together on the task force
well an incredible story and we will want to hear more of that
thank you
we will be back with more on larry king live in just a moment
please stay with us
welcome back
we're talking with tony muljat former postal inspection the postal inspection service
he worked on the unabom case since nineteen eighty five
amazing
the case as a whole spanned seventeen eighteen years
at some points in the string of sixteen bombings over those seventeen years and during your time on the case there were pau there were breaks of up to six years in duration between bombings between events
but still you stayed poised on the case investigating
how do you do that
well you get in my particular case it was that i was not going to let this type of a investigation go unsolved
i mean i was going to stay until the bitter end and even during the times of no bombings things were still being done
i mean there were leads still being followed information was still being received and whatever that information was it would be scrutinized and looked at to see how good it was
but i just wasn't going to give it up
you were spending up to eighty five percent of your working hours on this case
what does that focus that intensity do to you physically emotionally mentally and your family life
it makes me angry a lot of times but in any event my family has been very good in understanding my dedication to this case
my wife has had times when she has spent a lot of time by herself but she knew what she was getting into when when we got married and i was going to choose this as my career
for instance the early on you and the f. b. i. developed a questionnaire an exhaustive kind of questionnaire did you not
right
back in nineteen eighty five we in sacramento developed a questionnaire that we were going to have all of the victims up to that particular point answer all of the same questions in hopes that we could in fact find a common thread amongst those victims and for lead value for lead purposes
and then the unfortunate of hugh stratton in sacramento caused that to kind of take a little backseat
but eventually we did use it
well there that is an event in your hometown of sacramento
mm hm
and in that case the the bomber actually was in the town and left behind a device behind a computer shop did he not
that's correct
yes
so that shatters all of your illusions about tracing bad stamps for the postal service
you are in a life and death business
you bet
yes
at the time that that happened my self and other inspectors were in salt lake city trying to determine the exact mailing of a device from salt lake to professor james v. mcconnell
so did you feel that he was striking in in your home in your backyard
did you think this was personal
well i sometimes i wondered about that
there was an article that appeared in a utah paper on december eleventh nineteen eighty five indicating that postal inspectors in sacramento were in fact in salt lake
so i don't know what you can deduce from that but that's always kind of bothered me
now the investigation really picked up pace in nineteen ninety three
right
you were moved down to san francisco were you not
correct
computer scans were the task force was together
right
at the same time you were undergoing a certain degree of strain were you not
yes i was
back in ninety three with the bombings of charles epstein and david galartner took place or occurred then we all geared up once again and it was just a it was tough
i mean we were going in all kinds of directions
people were really jumping through a lot of hoops and in hopes that we could certainly get this person off the street whoever it was
now physically it took a toll
yes it did
what happened
in january of ninety six i had some annual leave that i was going to take and i had come home and a friend of my wife's my wife kathy a friend of her's rhett was over at the house and she says to my wife she says i don't like the way tony looks he doesn't look very good so my wife forced me to take a stress e. k. g. test and the charts came back abnormal and then the doctor said the best thing that we should do is to take an angiogram which we did and they had found out that my left coronary artery was ninety percent blocked and indicated that it was a good thing i walked in that day because i was just waiting for a heart attack to happen
and so then they the same day the next day they did an angioplasty and put three metal stints in my left coronary artery and the doctor said that he you know tony you're in good shape there is nothing for you to worry about there is no damage to your heart but i would call it a day he suggested that i just pull the plug and you know take control of my health as i had taken control to some extent in the case
and we will have to pick it up there when we came back because you didn't take his advice
you went back to work back on the case
and it's time for a commercial break
we will be right back
welcome back to our discussion of the unabomber investigation
our guest in washington is tony mulyat formerly of the unabom task force
now joining us from san francisco is criminal psychologist criminologist eric hickey who has worked with the task force
also joining us from chicago is russ mosny who attend attended rather high school with ted kaczynski
and that's our first question to you russ
tell us about ted kaczynski and your your recollections of him from high school days
russell mosny
kaczynski high school classmate well ted and i were reasonably good friends
we we spent our freshman sophomore and junior years and he in his junior year became a senior and he was sent off to harvard
my
was there anything in his behavior back then which indicated to you that he would wind up in a situation like this
honestly no
well yes and no all right
he he was a shy kid he was very bright he we felt that he was on the immature side that was our general feeling there was about six or eight of us
we were the better students of the high school the eggheads or intellectuals if you will and ted was friends with most of us
he interacted reasonably well with us
he was passive and withdrawn to some degree but but in our group he was you know he interacted well enough
and he would but he was a quiet and as i said passive individual not aggressive not striking out
in some cases he was victimized by some of the other kids at the school
one time he was stuffed into a locker but he just his reaction was so passive they just let him out again and that was it
russ you visited the kaczynski family home did you not
right
couple of times
what was the atmosphere there
it was a ver the impression i was left with is of an intellectual atmosphere
a lot of books you know the walls sort of lined with books his father would be reading it was only on a couple of occasions but his father was reading and a quiet man
his mother a little more active and so on but still of an intellectual sort of they had an f. m. radio which in those days was a relatively unusual thing
and of course all of the f. m. programming that was classical music so
well let's bring let's bring eric hickey criminologist eric hickey into this discussion
eric anything that you've heard in russ' description of of behavior that tips to you future paths of behavior
eric hickey
criminologist well i think we have to be very careful what we talk about in terms of being intellectual
there are many intellectuals in our society who are very normal citizens and certainly don't grow up to become criminals
obviously there has to be other factors mitigating factors within a family or within an individual for them to finally act out like that
certainly for children who are put ahead two or three grades sometimes that certainly can have an adverse affect trying to adjust socially
but that in itself wouldn't be enough to to cause someone to become to become violent
well what's your read on this case after listening to russ and examining a lot of other evidence which you all of which you probably won't share with us tonight but what's your read on that case
well i think that in some ways we're looking at an individual who does fit the profile of some other serial killers not that there was anything sexual about what he's done at all but we have to look at other factors
the common denominator among people who who would do these sorts of things whether they are sending bombs in the mail or they are killing individuals often we will find people with very low self esteem people who have feelings of abandonment feelings of rejection
and so the issue is we we were talking about someone who claims that you know he's anti technology
i don't question the fact that he that he believes to some degree that that's a problem in our society
but to me he's using that as a ruse he's using that as a scapegoat
the real fuel behind his behavior if he is indeed convicted of being the unabomber is someone who has had some very traumatic experiences in his life and has not been able to deal with those kinds of experience in a positive way
well listen eric we will ask you to hold it right there because we will be back with more from our guests and your phone calls when larry king live continues
we're back with our guests talking about the unabomber case
first question tony mulyat you heard criminologist eric hickey you heard russell mosny in chicago a friend in high school
mm hm
of of ted kaczynski
as you watch the case become more and more a psychological study a reading of psychological tea leaves almost of fragments of information trying to cross section you were going into a path of investigation that you had you encountered this before
no not in my not in my experience as an inspector had i ever been involved in such a case of this nature in trying to really figure out a motive of of somebody like this
generally motive is obvious in this case it was not
and and the technique very complex
obviously someone very intelligent
did it did it impact your impression of human nature your your concept of humanity to watch somebody so systematically and scientifically setting about the task of surprising people with explosive devices
well the manner in which the devices were either mailed or placed over a period of time certainly would indicate to me that he was moving about carefully and cautiously therefore making it more difficult for us to really know when the next one would occur would it be mailed would it be placed
the difficulty in it is that this case was unique in in many facets and it still is
well the unabomber virtually disappeared
you were looking for a phantom
did you did you sense that that that this was almost a case of unreality
well there were moments when my hopes were dimmed
but again we had a bunch of good people and intelligent people that were involved and were not going to give up and we kind of all bounced off of each other
we all kind of encouraged each other to keep going
but the the complexity for instance only one eyewitness in the entire seventeen year train of events and sixteen bombings only one eyewitness way back in nineteen eighty seven in salt lake city
mm hm
and then a six year six year pause
mm hm
did it frighten you
the complexity and success with which this unabomber was acting
well when we were fortunate to have a witness in salt lake in nineteen eighty seven at that time again we didn't know if we were dealing with a male female a white male black male or whatever it was and and that was a significant break for us at that time and then the composite that was provided by the eyewitness in my opinion was a strong likeness to the suspect and i think that drove him down under i really do
you know it
did you believe in that eyewitness report for the six long years where there was very little activity
well i did
i mean we had to use that in our search for the unabom suspect that was utilized
we had a lot of calls of people that said you know i saw somebody that looks just like him and those things all have to be followed up
there is no sense in producing or letting the public see something like that if you are not going to use it in your investigation
right
well time for a quick break
do stay with us
glad to have you back with us on larry king live
our guests tony mulyat who just this week retired from the unabom task force criminologist eric hickey and russ mosny a former classmate of unabomber suspect ted kaczynski
our first question eric hickey you heard us discussing just now the frightening success the unabomber had in remaining hidden and carrying out a string of very deadly attacks three people were killed twenty three people wounded over a seventeen year time span
were you as a criminologist ever frightened at the success that this man was having
well as a criminologist and as a professor i certainly had a vested interest in this considering that he was targeting in the beginning at least some professors
but certainly it was disturbing to see his abilities uncanny ability to go on with this over such a long period of time which led me to believe and others to believe that he was acting alone not and not with a group
russ mosny in chicago
yes
in in his years after high school after your time with theodore kaczynski what happened that could have in your view set him off on a life that would have led him to an arrest in such a case as this
well i think he left high school with with really undeveloped social skills
he had no girlfriend
he really had not we we never did anything outside of school
we didn't you know go to parties go to a movie anything of that nature he spent all of his time studying
and i in fact have spoken with one of his suitemates at harvard in the last few weeks and he said that at harvard he had no friends at all
they in the elliott hall had tried to befriend him and he would just walk away from them he would leave his dinner untouched rather than than face people
i think his he had just with his lack of an ability to deal with people to get to trust them he became incapable really of forming any friendships and in fact there are none reported through harvard through michigan and on into berkeley and then he went off into montana so that for almost a twenty year period there are no friends in his life
and
eric eric hickey as a criminologist
yes
what does that kind of behavior say to you
well you've got someone who has become socially inept over a long period of time
and it's not something that just begins in adulthood it's something that begins in childhood and and it is reinforced by rejection by the things that happen to them throughout their lives as he as russ has pointed out
you have someone there you have a man who takes things very personally who takes rejection very personally and because of that it fuels some fantasies it fuels some anger and so you have an individual who as he gets older becomes basically socially socially withdrawn
well we have a caller from nassau in the bahamas
your question please
hello
yes good evening
i have a question that probably inspector muljat and mr. hickey would be able to contribute to
i was wondering if if it has been looked at any similarities between timothy mcveigh and the suspect the unabomber
a relationship
first of all why don't we go to you tony any relationship between the oklahoma city bombing and this case
none that i could certainly indicate that there is no
i don't see any
eric a reaction perhaps the f. b. i. was certainly since there was a deadly attack only five days after the oklahoma city bombing anything in the mind of the unabomber that was triggered by that event
well i think so
if you go back to the world trade center blast four months after that blast we had two more bombs by the unabomber and i turned to a colleague after the oklahoma blast and i said you watch we're going to get hit by the unabomber and within two or three or four days another blast occurs
because he was telling us hey look you got those guys but you don't have me and you are never going to get me and and in that way he was taunting to police he was taunting law enforcement
and to that extent there he was playing a game
tony that last attack occurred after the oklahoma city bombing the task force had been up and was fully operational in san francisco for more than a year was there a sense of frustration that oh we've lost another life
well it certainly was
i was in the task force location in sacramento on the day that gilbert murray device went off and had heard about it and stopped at the scene there at the california forestry association
and based upon some of the people that i knew from the sacramento police department like joe edlow and his partner jeff gardner the questions that i asked them just using what i knew from the unabomber case i thought that certainly the likelihood was that once again he had struck but that's not my particular expertise that was left to the f. b. i.'s emergency response team
and that wasn't the end of the trail either
number
number
he continued on
was was there a sense that you were getting closer
well sure you know the more activity an individual creates the more likelihood of getting identified or captured most certainly
but very briefly would this case have been cracked if it hadn't been for david kaczynski the suspect's brother
well i i i want to say yes because we've done an awful lot of a lot of good work a lot of good people have done a lot of good things here and the task force investigation was going in the right direction
certainly the break helped but i still think that we were in the right direction and eventually we would have come up with our suspect yes
alleged suspect
well we thank our guests eric hickey in san francisco and russ mosny in chicago
when we return we try to answer the question where should the unabomber case be tried
we're back discussing the unabomber case with former task force member tony mulyat
now joining us are two lawmen who may be responsible for protecting the unabomber suspect sheriff armando fontoura of essex county new jersey where an advertising executive was killed by one of the unabomber's devices and sheriff glen craig of sacramento county california where two were killed by mail bombs
and before we go to sheriff craig we should point out of course that the suspect ted kaczynski has not yet been charged formally with any of the unabomber crimes
he's being held on a single charge of possession of bomb making materials and federal authorities have until may ninth to seek an indictment
he remains in jail in helena montana
but of course sheriffs craig and fontoura are very interested in this case and sheriff craig in california perhaps you might explain to us what's your view
how should this case this trial go forward
well obviously we we have the situation where two people were killed where we have three devices mailed from within sacramento we also have the possibility that the bomb in new jersey mailed in san francisco may have passed through sacramento
so we consider all of the evidence
you know what everybody wants in this case is to see the case tried in the location and with the specific charges that are going to guarantee that we have a conviction that this person never gets out again
i frankly think that has the best chance of happening right here in sacramento and i and not to be lost in this process is the fact that we have you know two victims and their families are still here
we have people that have been grieving for eleven years waiting for this person to be caught
and i think that the families themselves would like to bring this to closure i think it would help them if the case is tried here in sacramento
now sheriff armando fontoura in essex county new jersey you had a homicide on your turf as well thomas mosser killed in december nineteen ninety four an advertising executive killed in north caldwell new jersey
what's your reaction to what you've just heard from the sheriff in california
well my feeling is that you know i i am not so sure that it's terribly important to have the case either in new jersey or in california i think it's important that the case be brought to justice in the federal courts which i didn't hear my colleague say so
i believe i hope that is what he has in mind
i would not be in favor of having the case tried in the california courts versus the federal courts because i believe that the federal government is better equipped for it and quite frankly i believe that the california courts have not done well in the last three or four you know high profile trials that they have had
so i would have some concern with bringing that a case of this type of this high profile obviously within the state courts of california
i believe that if it is done on a federal basis that new jersey for the same reason that that sheriff indicates out there would apply here also
i happen to have gone to the scene there at mr. mosser's home and saw the devastation that that device brought you know to that family and to mr. mosser himself and of course the entire community
so i for those same reasons would also would welcome you know an opportunity to to have the people in new jersey have a go have a go at bringing justice to this particular case
well sheriff craig you've heard sheriff fontoura's remarks about recent high profile cases in california and the relative feeling of security among the law enforcement community about the results
what do you what do you think about that
well i think if he judges it on the you know either the menendez trial or the o. j. simpson trial he is probably right
we have had several very high profile cases here in sacramento
we probably have one of the best homicide prosecutors in the in the nation right here in our local district attorney's office
but i didn't get into the argument of whether it should be federal or state
i think the decision ought to be made on where we have the best case and how we can best prosecute it and that's it
in addition to that i think one of the things that hasn't been mentioned but that we have to consider is the safety and security of the suspect until the trial is completed
where do we have the best facilities the best likelihood for that security
what's the proximity to the federal court
what kind of problems are going to be encountered in transferring him there
the federal court is four blocks from our very modern very new very sophisticated and secure main jail
i think that i think that also speaks in in favor of a sacramento trial
well security is an issue too
we will be back with more after this break
don't go away
we're back on larry king live with the unabomber case
hello to our caller in oakland california
your question please
oh thank you so much for taking my call a very good program
i wonder though if we're setting a very bad precedent in this case or like the gentleman said formerly in the other high profile cases that were held here in california by disclosing so much evidence and by actually convicting a person in the eyes of the public before there is actual trial or the opportunity for a person to defend themselves
tony what do you think
well you know the evidence speaks for itself
if what is found can be associated then that's the answers
you know and i mean and that's the way it is
and the but there has been the caller is right there has been a lot of discussion of the evidence before charges even have been laid
does that trouble you
you've been on the case for ten years
well i really you know don't want to get into that or comment on that really at this time
obviously a sensitive issue
let's turn to our lawmen sheriff craig out in california what's your response
well my response is that that in any case that is this high profile you you're going to have a demand by the public to know and and a demand by the media
there is far more evidence obviously than has been released to the public
but i i think it would have been very difficult to keep that information from the media and from the public at large because of the fact because of the tremendous interest in this case
actually tony you've been in contact with a lot of the families of the victims haven't you through the investigation
how do they feel about all of the information coming out now
well they they have been very careful in in sharing their opinions with me regarding the the evidence
and they are all hopeful that everything will come to a a conclusion and they are cautious themselves
well sheriff fontoura out in new jersey is this publicity is that the one of the concerns that you were talking about in regard to the trying of the case
of course
publicity is always a very big concern in these kind of cases and i believe that the district court of new jersey which i believe is one of the finest run federal district courts in the country are very cognizant of that and you usually don't see media circuses around where we are even though we are fourteen miles out of new york city you know very cautious and with that aspect of it
and the interest on the part of the media right now i believe it has been handled about as appropriately as you possibly can the justice department is doing a great job the f. b. i. is doing an outstanding job and it's part of the healing process i think that people want to know you know there is a two goal process here
number one we want as tony said earlier to make sure we get this individual off the street and bring peace of mind to this country of ours to make sure that no one is afraid to open packages that they might be getting and the other is of course to bring the individual or individuals responsible to to justice which is what we what we all want
sheriff craig we've seen this kind of precedent before a high profile case arrest a lot of publicity
what would you suggest with regard to your desire to see the case tried in california as to how to prevent a media circus taking place
well i think the courts in california have learned like the rest of the nation has that inviting the television cameras into the courtroom was probably a bad decision to begin with
i don't think you will see that again in a high profile case here whether it's a state case or a federal case
but you know one of the things i think all of us in law enforcement have learned is that the media has means and ways of finding out things
there's often things that you don't want disclosed to the public and and so you kind of say okay you can have this but keep these other things out
and normally there is some protection but of that information by the media but they really have to have something
and i think it i agree i think it's been handled pretty well in this case
i don't think it's damaged it too greatly and i think that he can get a fair trial here or literally anyplace in the country
right
well back for some final moments with our guests after this
we're back for some final moments with our guests tony mulyat former postal inspector retired for all of two days
right
what are your plans now
you're going to be watching this case whatever those plans are
i sure will and closely
but my plans are to enjoy my wife and my family more
my oldest son his wife julie is expecting our first grandchild
gary my other son in l. a. and his wife joleen i want to share time with them
and michael in sacramento just spend more time with my family and those that really gave me a lot of support over the years
after a very rough case
we've got a call from tennessee
go ahead
will the family of the suspect be able to collect the one million dollars reward money
tony
well that's again another area that i have no idea if that's a possibility no
i would not touch that at all
sheriff craig in in your experience could the family of representing both the tipster and a potential suspect in a case collect on a reward
i think there is probably cases where that has occurred where in fact if that is the key that leads to the apprehension of a suspect you know that that family member probably went through more agony than any other tipster we have in any other kind of case and if it was up to me i would say give it to him but i don't know what the decision will be
now tony we touched on this before
you said the noose was tightening around the unabomber suspect regardless of the tip you feel that the case would have borne fruit
why do you say that
well because of the the things that we were doing
the publication of the manifesto in my opinion was the thing that really provided us with a wealth of information that was i was glad to see that come forward
did it did it bring in a lot of new clues
well it gave us a good idea i think and kind of provided to us an insight to the individual that we were looking for
but could that lead you geographically to montana
well i think eventually
you know there now it's easy to read the manuscript and see certain things that can be associated in some ways yes
what are your concerns as an investigator
you're hang you're hanging up your your pistol or your badge you're taking your plaque away as you say spending a lot more time with your with your family
mm hm
but you must feel both a sense of satisfaction and anxiety though because a lot of cases do come undone when they reach court
what are your thoughts going to be as the the process continues
the process will certainly see that justice is done
and i have no doubts or reservations that the criminal justice system will see to the successful prosecution of this case
are you feeling a little bit anxious already
the delay in charges being laid
no i don't i don't feel any anxious or it's just the right thing to do
better to err on the side of caution
erring on the side of caution
well sorry to end it here gentlemen
but we trust many thanks to sheriff armando fontoura of essex county new jersey in new york sheriff glen craig of sacramento county california and recently retired unabom task force member tony muljat right here in washington
tomorrow an encore appearance by guest host newt gingrich
larry king returns on monday night live from los angeles
i'm arthur kent thanks for being with us good night
on wall street today the nasdaq edging to yet another record high
the dow's performance however a little bit like watching paint dry
the blue chips tonight at five thousand five hundred sixty seven point nine nine a gain of just a point on the day
and volume today was four hundred two million shares advancing issues beating out declining issues by better than a six to five margin
the new york stock exchange composite index was up about a one half point
s. and p. five hundred index also gaining about one half point
the dow transportation index was up fifteen and one half points
dow utilities down a quarter of a point
the nasdaq composite that new record one thousand one hundred eighty six point eight nine a gain of two and three quarters and volume six hundred forty three million shares on the nasdaq
the american stock exchange index also closing at another record five hundred ninety three and one half a gain of more than two points
tonight's moneyline movers estee lauder surging four and one quarter merrill lynch calling recent weakness in the stock a buying opportunity
lauder's quarterly earnings are due out next week
maker of heart surgery equipment heartport soaring fourteen dollars on its first day of trading
xerox surging five and five eighths on top of a more than four dollar gain yesterday
investors still celebrating strong earnings
gateway two thousand losing three dollars and fifty cents after oppenheimer downgraded the computer maker's stock saying it had reached its price target
borland international sliding three and one quarter following a downgrade from soundview financial
in other corporate news herman's sporting goods today making another trip to bankruptcy court
it's the company's second chapter eleven filing in three years
all of herman's one hundred seventeen stores however will remain open while the company reorganizes it's finances which includes one hundred million dollars of unsecured debt
northwest airlines striking an alliance with china
the so called code sharing agreement will link northwest with air china's routes and flight schedules
glenayre technologies continuing its stunning rally
shares of the telecommunications maker up another three and three quarters after wednesday's eight dollar and zero cent surge on strong earnings
collecting new york city's commercial trash is a billion dollar industry jealously guarded by the mob
but now corporate america's trash haulers are trying to carry away some of that business thanks to some help from new york city law enforcement
sean callebs has the story
new york city has been called the saudi arabia of trash
but until recently companies like u. s. a. waste the third largest operation in the nation were shut out of new york's billion dollar trash market
organized crime controlled it
there's always personal concerns coming into an industry that has had this taint if you will of organized crime and and there still is
but that is not a deterrent
we believe that the time for new york city to enter into an open competitive market is now
u. s. a. waste started operations in mid april
now the three largest u. s. haulers are working in new york
what changed
the manhattan district attorney's office is breaking the mob cartel
following a two year investigation seventeen people and twenty three companies are under indictment and nearly two hundred seventy million dollars in assets seized
bfi the nation's second largest solid waste removal company was the first firm to venture into new york
with ads like this bfi got a toehold in new york
businesses began to realize real change was taking place
there was somebody behind them
in fact law enforcement that was going to back up their efforts and and that they could think seriously and more comfortably about switching something they couldn't do before that
businesses which had been overcharged a total of half a billion dollars a year began to see hauling rates fall by up to fifty percent
and for the first time in nearly fifty years trash is no longer a dirty word in new york city
sean callebs c. n. n. financial news new york
next on moneyline j. f. k.'s golf clubs go on the block at sotheby's and one baseball player stops at almost nothing to place his bid
the nasdaq today moving to yet another new high
what's driving it and just how much further can it go
some answers tonight from our guest frank capiello the chairman of capiello rushmore funds
he joins us from our washington bureau
welcome to moneyline
hi jan thank you
let's start actually with small cap stocks
they the russell two thousand also closed out a record today
why do you think they are soaring so much lately
well there are a couple of reasons
one they've underperformed their big brothers the dow and the blue chips for almost a year and a half to two years
and secondly a strong dollar has pushed a lot of these big blue chips into problem areas
we've seen the selloff of the drug stocks because so much of their earnings come from deutschmark or yen denominated currencies and they're going to take a currency hit with the strong dollar
and finally i guess basically small stocks are going to show faster growth in the overall economy with a slower economy your small stocks look very well
so in fact they've done well at the expense of the bigger stocks
yes in a way they have
i think the way you attribute this to the fact that money has been coming out of the blue chips and pouring into the small or mid cap sectors
you can almost feel it oozing out of the big busted blue chips
they're not busted but they're certainly past their prime
what about you
do you own some of the small cap stocks
yes we own a number of stocks
our favorite is a small to mid cap size stock like l. s. i.
we think very highly of that as a chip manufacturer
we have a company like west marine which is a company that really distributes marine products in a unique way
those are two examples of what you can do with small cap stocks
both of those stocks are up off their lows significantly
what about high tech
the nasdaq has been breaking records as well and has also outperformed the dow so far this year
how much further can it go
well jan what we've been seeing in the high tech is really a sorting out as opposed to what we saw last summer when all the high tech stocks were rolling
we're now seeing a sorting out of the good and the bad and the good high tech stocks like intel motorola stocks of that type that have durability are moving ahead
the weaker ones like a company like v. l. s. i. which is also a chip producer is really sort of a laggard
and i think that will continue until we get another boom in high tech
high tech is still good business but it's not terrific business like it was last summer
so what are you doing at this point in terms of your investors' money
well we're fairly fully invested still
we think this bull market still has a way to go the small cap sector will continue for many months we think
we also think that the strong dollar while it hurts big cap stocks does provide an element of positive effect for inflation
you've got to remember if the strong dollar if the dollar continues to go up non oil imports are going to go down in price
so that's a plus against inflation and we think that will help the economy
we think there's still a lot of money around and we think finally the consumer is beginning to perk up
i think you're going to see a good consumer year and we're very high on retailing
what other kind of values are you finding out there
well perversely after i've sort of downgraded the big blue chips i think there is a sector of blue chip stocks that's very positive and that would be the mercks the phisers these big drug companies have come off about fifteen percent in some cases more than that and this is a god given chance to buy some of these high quality global class stocks at what i consider to be a fair discount
what about inflation
we've been hearing a lot about higher oil prices and higher grain prices particularly
are you at all concerned about it
you said the stronger dollar kind of offsets does that keep it in check
well not exactly but it will be an offset because there are a lot of non oil imports that could add to inflation and that won't
but grain prices and oil prices do bother us and oil is denominated in dollars but i think oil is temporary i think iraq will be allowed to pump probably after the election politically it's a very bad thing to do right now but i think there will be an assumption that this will happen after the election and i think a lot of this grain and soy bean and corn price frenzy is basically weather related and it's not long lasting
weather related incidents just do not give us inflation
they may add a bit to inflation and i think we will have a bit higher inflation i'm looking for two and three quarters percent on the c. p. i. and that's slightly higher than i would have had earlier in the year
what about interest rates
do they worry you at all in terms of the stock market
not where they are now
the long rate the t. bond rate the treasury bond rate is really the best indication of worldwide interest rates
short rates the fed can conjure but long rates they can't control and long rates seem to have topped out as they've approached the seven percent area
i'd be very disturbed if we went to seven and one quarter but i don't think that's very likely
i think the next move will be a settling down and then we'll move down toward six percent
but i think the bond rally the big bond boom that we've had for a number of years is really over
i'd be very careful about bonds but i'd still be very bullish about stocks
thanks very much
frank capiello the chairman of capiello rushmore funds
thanks for joining us
thank you january
and up next on moneyline a complete wrap of the day's action on wall street shares of xerox duplicating yesterday's impressive performance and one sporting goods giant once again seeking financial cover
the nasdaq's stunning rally driven by strength in small cap stocks they're booming again after under performing the overall market for two years
katharine barrett has that story
hit a winner among the four thousand six hundred stocks with a market capitalization of half a billion dollars or less and it could be a bonanza
microsoft and intel are cases in point small caps that exploded
historically the small caps have delivered better performance long term than the large caps so there are compelling reasons to look at small cap companies
their biggest risk which is their volatility is also their biggest opportunity because the gains can be very dramatic in small caps
and the last two months are an example
a leaping dollar and questionable economy have kept investors away from bigger companies that depend on exports and are sensitive to changes in the economy so they're diverting money to small caps
but it's hardly risk free
the numbers of small cap stocks far outweigh the number of large cap stocks so just looking at it as an overall from the overall market point of view you have a situation of survivorship
so clearly more small cap companies smaller companies fail as they move through maturity than survive
by that virtue alone it just seems like a much riskier strategy over time to focus on small cap stocks
a risk that's paying off if you invested in atari up more than one hundred seventy percent in the first quarter alone or s. i. f. f. energy up one hundred fifty percent
and mutual funds are along for the ride
fully two thirds of the top one hundred performing funds this year are small cap funds
katherine barrett c. n. n. financial news new york
larger cap mutual funds are not faring as well
fidelity investments today saying inflows to its domestic stock flunds slowed for a fourth straight month
fidelity estimating two billion dollars went into its funds this month a decline from over three billion in march four billion in february
january inflows totaled more than five billion
investors apparently disappointed with the performance of fidelity's larger funds
magellan is up just two point eight percent this year
the funds heavy investment in treasury bonds clearly a losing bet
one big winner today on wall street
pixar animation studios
that's stock surging two and three quarters to twenty four and three quarters in heavy volume
the company turning its first profit earning six million dollars in the first quarter
the company co produced disney's hit film toy story which has brought in one hundred eighty five million dollars in box office receipts
after three pictures with disney pixar will have the ability to own and control all of its own films
what you see here is the first animated studio outside of disney that is able to generate those kinds of box office draws
despite today's rally pixar is still trading about sixteen dollars and zero cents below it's high following the company's i. p. o. last november
the merger of bell atlantic and nynex moving along rapidly
bell atlantic chairman ray smith today saying the two companies may jointly offer long distance telephone service even before the merger is completed
smith also said washington's initial response to the merger was heartwarming
coming up on moneyline high tech stocks are soaring
veteran money manager frank capielo will tell us why he is still bullish
and collecting new york city's trash
no longer just a job for the mob
myron kandel joins me now with some thoughts on the news of the day
mike let's start with small stocks
what do you make of them
well an incredible week january
what what really amazes me is the nasdaq composite so far this year is up twelve and one half points more than four points percentage points that is this week alone
and and the nasdaq seven straight records as you reported four the four of the heaviest volume days in its history this week the top four
and not only the nasdaq stocks you go to the russell two thousand which tracks even more smaller stocks
that set another rec seventh record in a row today up nine and
thirty for the year records
that's right
up nine and one half percent for the year
how does that compare with the dow
the dow isn't so bad
it's up more than eight percent
the s. and p. five hundred is up six percent
so they're doing o. k. for the year
but those smaller stocks are going bananas
is there a kind of speculative frenzy at this point though
i think there's a that's what bothers me
i think they have more to go but i'm a little worried by the heavy volume and the speculation the new issues that are going out of sight
that that worries me
so i don't think this market is ready to take a dive but i get a little cau more cautious than i have been in the recent past
what about the economy
any thoughts on that
well i think the economy is not as sluggish as some say and not as strong
we'll know better next week
next friday we'll be sitting here next friday night
that'll be the key
we'll have the unemployment numbers for april
that they will have smoothed out the
perhaps
job creation figures for we'll have four months so the summer i mean the winter that was a slip the winter weather we had in january and the g. m. strike will be averaged out
then we'll really know where the economy is right now
so stay tuned
yes indeed
thanks mike
and the jacqueline kennedy onassis estate at sotheby's
the sale is over after four days of furious bidding at fantastic prices
total take on the estate sale over thirty million dollars
and for at least one item one bidder went to amazing lengths to bid
two bags of president kennedy's golf clubs went for a total of one point one million dollars
but this is the story of one of the losing bidders who dropped out at one hundred twenty one thousand dollars
at one hundred ten to 120 one hundred twenty dollars
the bid was from boston red sox pitcher roger clemons who phoned in from the red sox club house in fenway park boston
clemons wasn't pitching last night
he got permission to leave the dugout in the middle of the game with texas
it was the first auction for clemons an avid golfer and fan of the late president
he said he thought the price would be high but then the bidding became unreal
seven hundred thousand
thank you both
clemons certainly had the means to make the winning bid
his annual salary is five point five million dollars
guess he didn't want them that badly
finally tonight a word about ourselves
moneyline and c. n. n. business news honored last night here in new york for moneyline's ground breaking reports last year on the cuban economy
our week long series of reports with lou dobbs winning the overseas press club award for best business broadcast
the series exploring cuba's slow recovery from deep economic troubles and the nation's uneasy flirtation with capitalism
the broadcasts from havana marked the first time a nightly u. s. newscast aired live from cuba
that is moneyline for this friday evening
we thank you for joining us
i'm jan hopkins sitting in for lou dobbs
good night from new york and have a great weekend
for more on this story visit c. n. n. f. n. on the world wide web at c. n. n. f. n. dot com
you can also explore c. n. n. f. n. business news with the online service that's strictly business a. t. and t. business network
good evening
it's being called the second worst drought in u. s. history a dry spell that's devastating the heartland's wheat crop
in texas agriculture secretary dan glickman today toured dried out wheat fields reassuring farmers that the government will not ban wheat exports
meanwhile in the commodities trading pits in chicago wheat prices continue to soar causing new worries about inflation
ceci rodgers has more from chicago
drought has damaged the kansas wheat crop some say beyond repair
you have two back to back years of no wheat or poor to little wheat you know if any
that's left u. s. supplies of the grain that goes into bread at the lowest level in fifty years
a poor crop last year has left corn stocks at a twenty year low
and prices for those grains are zooming to historic heights
wheat now sells for more than seven dollars a bushel and corn for may delivery is above five dollars both record highs
with the emotions as high as they are instead of getting the quarter or half cent ticks we're starting to see the wheat market moving three to five cent ticks
so it's getting very vicious very violent
and vicious for the corner bakery in chicago which is absorbing up to three thousand dollars in losses a week because of the soaring price of wheat
price hikes will likely be passed along to customers in may
it's something we're discussing every day now
two weeks ago it wasn't on our normal meeting agenda
now it is
other food companies aren't waiting
nabisco just raised its cracker prices five percent
pillsbury's prices are up three to four percent
economists say food inflation could accelerate to more than five percent later this year but unless continued poor weather cuts summer crop yields economists say higher food costs won't filter through to the consumer price index
a little tiny bit of inflation actually at the grocery store but offset by other trends out there particularly in the cereal market where they're actually lowering prices
economists point to grain futures for july and december delivery which are much lower in price than the may contracts
traders like to say the best cure for high prices is high prices
consumers will dig only so deep into their pockets before prices are forced back down
ceci rodgers c. n. n. financial news chicago
the bond market today once again brushing off those soaring commodity prices traders equally unphased by a slight decline in consumer confidence reported by the university of michigan
the thirty year treasury issue gaining two thirty seconds the yield six point seven eight percent
blue chip stocks posting a minuscule gain at the close the dow industrials at five thousand five hundred sixty seven point nine nine up just over a point on the session big board volume four hundred two million shares
the nasdaq however making history once again hitting its seventh straight record one thousand one hundred eighty six point eight nine a gain of two point seven two volume six hundred forty three million shares capping the busiest week in nasdaq history
well the white house of course had engineered the cease fire by remote control or at least by warren christopher control
lets go to senior white house correspondent wolf blitzer
wolf must be a little pride of authorship down there
well they're very happy here reid at the white house as you can imagine
and no doubt president clinton will try to make some remarks pretty soon expressing his gratitude to his secretary of state for brokering this deal and to the parties
and he will presumably also express hope that this will lead to a resumption of broader peace negotiations not only involving israel and syria but israel and lebanon as well
the u. s. has over the years played the major role in mediating all of these peace agreements and presumably the u. s. will continue to do so
it's interesting that in this negotiation the united states was the key party primarily because that's what the israelis wanted
the israelis didn't want to really negotiate with the french or the russians or the european union
they wanted the united states to make this deal happen and that's why secretary of state christopher shuttled over so many days between jerusalem and damascus
reid
wolf the presence of syrians of monitors of that cease fire will add an unusual aspect to this entire arrangement will it not
it puts the israelis and the syrians together with the lebanese and the united states involved in this monitoring process
the french are going to be involved as well and if it goes well if there are some incidents lets say this monitoring group that has been proposed will try to investigate and get everything back to a cease fire
beyond the monitoring group there is a consultative group that includes russia the european union and others who are involved who are interested in arab israeli peace
but it does add a new wrinkle in that israel and syria will be directly involved in monitoring this cease fire
wolf blitzer the president was supposed to sign the budget deal today
did he get around to that
we're told he hasn't done it yet
he is going to do it very very soon
he is supposed to leave here in about an hour an hour and a half to go to wilmington delaware and then onto philadelphia
one of the complications is that as part of the budget deal there were some riders that republicans demanded on environmental issues but the negotiators agreed that the president could waive those riders
he is now in the process of formally waiving some of those riders that would restrict his environmental policies
he has to explain to congress in advance why he has taken this decision to waive those riders so it becomes a little bureaucratically complicated but he is signing the budget deal and ending all of those government shutdowns and stalemates
all right and on the agenda is some private taping over the weekend isn't there
sunday afternoon all of sunday afternoon will be devoted to the president's testifying in connection with the whitewater trial in little rock
he will be testifying here at the white house residence
many of the whitewater defendants including the mcdougals his former partners will be here for that testimony
it will be on videotape but don't expect to see any of that videotape anytime soon
it's going to be made available to the judge
he probably will release a transcript
all right wolf blitzer thank you live from the white house
there's a lot to cover there today
as we told you at the top of the hour the big story of this day and perhaps for many days is the agreement to cease firing along the lebanese frontier between israel and lebanon
c. n. n.'s brent sadler has done some reporting as you know from tyre up in southern lebanon
let's go to brent sadler now
brent
thanks reid
well you join me amid an artillery bombardment which has just broken out behind me
this is israel's response to a katyusha attack which i saw going out from that area just within the past five minutes
i saw three katyusha launches go off
i don't know whether they were targeted on the security zone which israel occupies in south lebanon or whether those rockets were heading towards israel
but as you can see and hear israel is responding with a pounding by an artillery one hundred fifty five shells i would imagine hitting that area behind me
this nine hours or so before we expect a cease fire to come into effect which should stop hezbollah's rockets being fired against the northern israeli towns and settlements and should stop israel fire targeting civilian areas
but this does not look particularly good given the fact that on the international stage we've had the prime minister of israel we've had the prime minister of lebanon we've had the u. s. secretary of state talking about a milestone agreement a milestone accomplishment of diplomatic efforts to achieve a new cease fire agreement and now we're seeing a continuation of katyushas being fired and of course israel's retaliatory response
this cease fire deal that has been brokered is based really on an agreement that was established in nineteen ninety three july of that year
that was brokered then by the u. s. secretary of state warren christopher but what we have now in addition to what was on the table back in nineteen ninety three is a written agreement in consultation with syria the establishment of a monitoring group that should prevent the attacks by either the israelis or the hezbollah on civilian areas
more importantly a ban as a result of this new agreement a ban on hezbollah using civilian areas to launch their attacks against israel forces in the occupation zone
so we wait for the cease fire
meanwhile sporadic shelling is continuing
make to you reid
brent is it given the years of bad blood in the sixteen recent days of heavy exchange surprising that those before the cease fire might want to get in that last shell
yes i think that is probably the case
many hours were left between the announcement of the cease fire and when it comes into effect
it takes many many hours if not days sometimes to establish and more importantly to consolidate a cease fire
and certainly hezbollah at the moment is unrestricted in what it can do with its katyushas
it may well want to get a few more in before this cease fire starts and israel of course will continue to respond as we're seeing right now
reid
all right
brent sadler live from tyre where the cease fire is on paper
so far has some nine hours before it is officially to take effect
brent thank you
ukraine russia and belarus are in mourning today
ten years ago an explosion and fire rocked the chernobyl nuclear plant in ukraine touching off a disaster
in an address from china where he is on a state visit russian president boris yeltsin called chernobyl the worst catastrophe in the history of mankind
yeltsin says safety at nuclear power plants needs to be improved
c. n. n. moscow bureau chief eileen o'connor has more on the chernobyl anniversary
gray stones and memorials are all they have left
leonid tuptunov was a nuclear engineer at chernobyl and vera's only son
i donated my blood my marrow she says
he told me mom your blood was the best
i could feel it a brother's loss stirs anger
nobody explained anything to the people says fiodo orlov
food markets were opened
such was the regime
it happened at one twenty three in the morning
new reports say there was an experiment going on inside the reactor
things started going wrong and poorly trained and managed workers made it worse with an improper shutdown that aided a nearly complete meltdown
the nearby town of pripyat awakes unknowing
as the radiation spreads throughout ukraine belarus and russia scientists in scandinavia pick up increased radiation levels
they are the ones who alert the world to the fact that something is terribly wrong and probably at chernobyl
despite those western reports the people are encouraged to attend may day celebrations as usual oblivious to the risk of the radioactive clouds overhead
anna shishlova is a school teacher in nearby narovlia
we found out about the accident the day after but nobody said that it was terrible
life as usual as local authorities tried to cover up mistakes hoping they can avoid trouble with party leaders a mistake that will later cost lives
if we were informed about three o'clock or two o'clock in that period especially for children i think the damage from chernobyl and damage for our health would be not so great
the first test for glasnost the new openness emerging here failing miserably
the then soviet leader mikhail gorbachev appearing on television only eighteen days after the accident blaming not russia but the west
we cannot ignore the political aspect of things and how the chernobyl tragedy was handled by the government political figures and the media certain countries in nato and especially the united states
they initiated an unabashed anti soviet campaign
today he professes innocence through ignorance
if something wasn't done properly at that time it was simply because we didn't know
now it is the soviet system that is blamed blamed for allowing such an unsafe reactor to be built in the first place
in democracy society it was being possible to build such kind of reactors
the west is paying three point two billion dollars to shut chernobyl down
ukraine belarus and russia are paying with people's lives
eileen o'connor c. n. n. moscow
they were freelance negotiators who wanted to talk the freemen out of their standoff with the f. b. i. at a remote montana ranch
thanks said the federal agents but no thanks c. n. n.'s don knapp has our story
strong gusting winds buffeted the small plane that brought three would be negotiators to jordan montana
those on board included white separatist randy weaver whose wife and son were killed in a confrontation with federal agents at ruby ridge idaho in ninety two jack mclamm a former police officer and founder of police against the new world order and pilot james bo griggs a former green beret who has been credited with helping negotiate an end to the ruby ridge standoff
the three came to try to end the month long standoff here between federal agents and eighteen men women and children who remain holed up on a foreclosed wheat farm in remote eastern montana
i've got a plan that will allow them to achieve what they want but using the system
and so we're going to try
i'm not intimidated by guns on either side
several of the freemen on the ranch they call justus township face federal indictments for a variety of crimes including passing bad checks and threatening public officials
earlier in the day two state negotiators met for the fifth time with those on the ranch but left with no word on progress if any
randy weaver's name began surfacing soon after the stand off began as a possible negotiator despite an apparent reluctance on the part of the federal government to use his services
what would weaver tell those inside
try to emphasize all the heartache my family's gone through because of what we went through and what i know the people that survived at waco went through and they can understand the terrorism that we went through
but the trio was stopped about ten miles from the freeman ranch by federal and state agents
orders to have you go back
before turning around griggs told reporters and photographers why he came
we don't want any more waco's and i don't want to wait for janet reno to have a bad hair day to have one
the group returned to f. b. i. headquarters at the garfield county fairground just outside jordan and met for a while with officials there
it appeared the three would overnight in an r. v. parked at the airport
it's not clear whether weaver griggs or mclamm will even get a chance to negotiate
sources tell c. n. n. the f. b. i. has no intention of allowing any of the three to enter the freemen ranch complex
don knapp c. n. n. jordan montana
something as simple as planting sunflowers around chernobyl could help clean up the hazardous environment around the plant
flower power may sound like a lot of hippie nonsense but scientists say it is deeply rooted in fact
c. n. n.'s mary ann mcrae has that story
we know that plants clean the air but can they rid the earth of radioactive waste and toxic metals
the answer say some researchers is yes through a process called phytoremediation
phytoremediation is the use of plants to remove contaminants from the environment or to render them harmless as simple as that
but it's not as simple as just putting a plant in the soil says raskin
it requires fooling the plant into taking up pollutants instead of nutrients and it requires the right kind of plant with the right kind of roots
rutgers university along with a small new jersey company phytotech is field testing sunflowers in the polluted ponds near the chernobyl nuclear plant
using these ponds we will be able to remove these radionuclides from the water and make it clean for irrigation purposes or even as a source of drinking water
and they found the indian mustard plant particularly handy at extracting toxic metals from soil
growing plants is inherently cheaper safer friendlier acceptable to environmental agencies
it's a very cost effective technology for soils because really the technology which in existence now prevents us from filling up most of the sites we have
it would cost six hundred thousand dollars an acre to clean up this old factory site the conventional way which means digging up the lead polluted soil and dumping it in a landfill
by using indian mustard plants to suck up the lead those costs researchers say will be ten times less
the roots of these plants generally will go down at least twelve inches and as much as twenty inches
the good thing for the plants is that the lead stays in mostly in the top six inches of the soil
the old factory in trenton along with its high levels of lead is smack in the middle of a residential neighborhood
if this works yeah it's wonderful
but then if it doesn't work hopefully they will go back to the old way or whatever it takes to get it cleaned up
but researchers hope they won't have to resort to the old way
field trials have yielded positive results and a handful of companies hope to commercialize this plant technology
the best biochemists on the planet are probably organisms
plants are way up there
so if nature proves able to do the job over time it will provide a cheaper and much prettier answer to environmental cleanup
mary ann mcrae c. n. n. trenton new jersey
hi everyone i'm jim moret
and i'm laurin sydney and jim it is a big opening this weekend in new york
really what's opening
big
i know it's big but what is it
jim it's big it's real big
you said that but what is it
jim it is the musical based on the tom hanks' movie big
wait you're saying they based a musical on joe and the volcano
i'm not saying it everyone's saying it
okay abbott let's get on with it
we will have more on that and what's hot in entertainment this weekend
but first let's go to today's showbuzz
macauley culkin turned his dad into the cops after his dad slapped him because he wouldn't clean up his room
the fifteen year old star called nine hundred eleven to report the slap on thursday and police responded
his father kit culkin admitted to the slap and the matter was referred to family court with no charges being filed
culkin and his six siblings are caught in a bitter custody battle between their now separated parents
margot kidder's ex husband the man she believes wants to kill her reportedly hasn't seen the actress in decades
writer tom mcgwain describes as hilarious the reports that kidder's bizarre odyssey through los angeles was inspired by fear of his evil intentions
a dozen people reportedly encountered kidder as she wandered the streets for days
three good samaritans got her a hotel room for one night
she eventually was found paranoid and disheveled in a stranger's yard in suburban los angeles
kidder has been moved from a mental hospital to an undisclosed private facility
david schwimmer and friends showed up for the premier of his new film the pallbearer in hollywood thursday night
his sitcom co star matt leblanc was there along with tracy ullman rosie perez rosanna arquette and others
the black comedy about a guy who attends the funeral of a classmate he can't remember opens may third
schwimmer bravely worked the media although he says no one gave him advice on how to do it
not a soul
no i just got in from chicago
i'm kind of like ah
so not really i don't know a handbook
i didn't get the handbook
veteran actor hume cronyn is engaged to be married to a writer according to the new york times
cronyn who is eighty four was married to actress jessica tandy until her death in nineteen ninety four
his fiancee susan cooper is sixty and was a long time friend of both tandy and cronyn
sir anthony hopkins already has one title to his name
now he's adding another
the acclaimed actor has become a movie director for the first time
for his debut in the director's chair he's taking on one of the heavyweights of russian literature
it's classic chekhov set in nineteenth century wales
uncle bania becomes august in anthony hopkins' latest film the academy award winning actor's first as director
i remember on the first day driving up to the location our first day shooting and all the trailers were there the generators and the trucks and i thought hey hold on i didn't mean it you know
the greatest frustration for hopkins the director was wanting to do all the performances himself
still he says the experience was easier than he thought it would be
actually i've always had a sneaking respect for directors
i think they've got a tough job
but i think some of them make a great mystery and a mythology of it and that's fine if that's what they want to do
but i don't choose to do it that way
hopkins' key direction to the cast don't treat august like chekhov no long pauses
take it fast take it simply but keep the melancholy feeling
it's a drama of human comedy you know
it's melancholy and it's sad and it's very funny and when the people take themselves so seriously
the awful grinding truth is that life is underneath all our joy and our passion for it it's finally sad because one day we all say good bye and that's the end of that
and what i tried to do at the end of it was to uplift it with a lullaby musically
perhaps more surprising than hopkins the director is hopkins the composer
the actor was classically trained as a child and wrote music into his teens
while acting directing and composing could be a heady experience hopkins points to his upbringing by his father in keeping him grounded even today
i remember once he wanted me to help him in the bakery he was a baker and i'm studying the piano and he says for god's sake he said what are you going to do with yourself
what are you playing
i said beethoven
he said no wonder he went deaf
he said get out and do something
august is playing in april right now in new york and los angeles
we'll be back with more of showbiz today in just a moment
in case you missed it in our open some folks in the big apple sunday will be going to the opening night performance of a new musical called big
it's based on the hit film of the same name starring tom hanks
on stage of course the producers don't have the luxury of hopping from one location to another for every scene so the sets become very important and as cynthia tornquist reports the big sets were assembled by a master
you saw it in the movie now it's on the stage
it's one of the many sets created by designer robin wagner for big the musical
it starts here at wagner studio where he constructs quarter inch set models
that's the one we do first so that we don't spend enormous amounts of time and then we assuming that it's in the show at that point then we make a bigger one
somehow i always thought that you started on paper first
well some people do
i don't because it's hard for me to describe on paper three dimensions
these will become the backdrops for the new jersey town where josh lives before making his wish to be big
is the director a part of this whole decision making process
every single step
and by the way when we get up into half inch skill our authors are also very involved and the composer and lyricist and so on because this affects their work
it's rare when something he designs isn't in the show
that was an early carnival tent which is no longer in the show
some sets were inspired by the film others resulted from research including a trip to f. a. o. schwartz in manhattan
the toy store and investor in the show lent the design for its clock and supplied toys
they couldn't provide a roller coaster but that wasn't a problem for wagner
it's constructed to just sweep around so that you get that look
that's not exactly how it works but it's something like that
little dummies with wigs on
yeah
in keeping with the toy theme wagner engineered the sets to transform like toys
and this piece turns again and this side of the house becomes the port authority well part of the port authority thing which is the only part you see of course is that and then it eventually turns into f. a. o. schwartz
ground plans chart the movement of the sets
larger drawings are used as the blueprints for cost estimates and construction
big's price tag for sets alone is roughly one point five million dollars
when the show is over at least on broadway what do you do with all of this stuff
it goes to the dump and it's a terrible loss but it's just the way it is
the drawings we save because we have to make more shows if it's a success
as witnessed by his successes crazy for you angels in america and a chorus line tony award winner robin wagner saves more than he throws away
cynthia tornquist c. n. n. entertainment news new york
if you've been holding your breath for the release of waiting to exhale on home video the wait is over
whitney houston's recent hit is hitting video store shelves this weekend and here to preview that and more is our video expert dennis michael
dennis
that was sweet
you were holding your breath
yes
do you have a word of advice for the men watching
a word of advice two syllables of advice
here's your advice beware
this is not a film that shows the masculine sex in what we would call the most favorable light
look out guys they've got that thelma and louise look in their eyes again
waiting to exhale is a nineties style update of what used to be called a woman's picture with four top notch actresses trying to work out their problems with the men in their lives
and as you might well guess most men don't fare very well in this film
actor forrest whitaker directed this
many women love it
most men should bring flowers when it's over
just a piece of friendly advice
disney is the standard bearer for feature animation to be sure
but to call the nineteen seventy feature the aristocats a masterpiece is to stretch that word a little out of shape
the voice cast is headed up by phil harris as a street wise alley cat and eva gabor as a tabby kidnapped for her huge inheritance and nobody is suggesting that there be a broadway version of this one
see you at the rental counter
my favorite time of the week you have a show and tell
i have a show and tell
well most people like to get the bugs out of their computer not put them in but they might feel differently if they owned this c. d. rom sim ant
this has been around actually for a while and it's hard to believe that this can have golden oldies which is basically what this is
it's how it's being marketed
this is classic software at collectible prices read somewhat less expensive comes in a smaller package basically just a jewel box
and this what simulates an ant colony
oh yeah yeah you're in an ant colony
you're the queen or a worker or whatever and yeah you run around trying to protect the colony from deadly enemies and trying not to eat pesticides and all that stuff
it's good for you
how much does it sell for
fourteen dollars and ninety five cents is your manufacturer's suggested retail price but it can be lower at discount
okay better stop my skin is beginning to crawl
thanks a lot
let's go back to laurin sydney who's rubbing the bug repellent on right now i bet
looking for some wild life this weekend and i don't mean ant colonies
well maybe you'll want to hang around and watch t. v.
there is a new t. v. movie based on the classic born free film and sandra bernhard has a program called reel wild cinema
bill tush has the t. v. highlights
in born free a new adventure airing saturday night on a. b. c. jonathan brandes of sea quest fame plays rand thompson a city kid who feels like a fish out of water when his father moves the family to africa
that all changes however after ran meets an orphan lion cub named elsa
the lion and my son become buddies and they just are inseparable
but the lion is also being taken care of by my next door neighbor's daughter
so there's a relationship kind of brewing between them and in the center of it is the lion
there's also plenty of fun brewing in dexter's laboratory these days
on saturday the turner entertainment networks unveil a brand new animated character a brainy little know it all named dexter who thinks that wacky inventions are mere child's play
he's a genius and he has this huge scientific laboratory in his bedroom and he makes all these inventions
he's a very cocky very confident little boy but he's got his own that's the surface of it but beneath he's kind of sweet and kindhearted
finally who better to host a show called reel wild cinema than the always wild comedienne and actress sandra bernhard
sassy sandra celebrates some of hollywood's weirdest low budget films in this new hour long series
it's the genre of films that i grew up on those really kind of terrifying friday night horror flicks horror sex you know it's where horror meets you know hot sex
reel wild cinema airs on the u. s. a. network sunday night
bill tush c. n. n. entertainment news new york
new in book stores this weekend a biography of jerry lewis called king of comedy spring collection by judith krantz and an offering from former manhattan madam sydney biddle barrows
women who've never read my books and i hate to think about that they're going to love this too because it's the models are universally fascinating to all of us and there's a fast pace to this book
it's a genuine page turner
he was the highest paid actor in movies
he was the highest paid t. v. performer
he's been the highest paid performer on broadway
he's had he's transmitted physical comedy
he's been one of the last sort of living reminders of borscht belt and burlesque humor
so he's had and he's been in show biz for fifty years
my favorite chapter is the relationship turn ons and turn offs because if there's one thing that women single women as well as married women are really interested in is what are men looking for in a relationship
what can i do so that a relationship with me is more appealing and what is it that i might be doing that would make a relationship with me a turn off
new in theaters this weekend is a romantic comedy called the truth about cats and dogs but it didn't leave our critics fighting like cats and dogs
they actually agreed on this one
do you believe that
here are peter travers of rolling stone and dana kennedy of entertainment weekly in this week's edition of he said she said
you want the truth about this romantic comedy dana
i'd love it
yeah okay well it's as wispy as one of those spring dresses you used to wear except today you're in pants
i don't understand
peter i don't wear wispy spring dresses
what are you talking about
well i've seen you wear wispy but i don't want to go on with that
let me set this movie up
janeane garofalo plays the hostess of a radio call in show about pets and she's really funny to listen to on the air really seductive voice too and ben chaplin is this great photographer who falls in love with that voice or at least he gets turned on by it and he calls her for a date
well because she's down on herself and her looks and no self esteem she asks uma thurman who's her leggy model friend to fill in for her
so it sounds familiar now doesn't it
it's this twist on cyrano de bergerac with again janeane garofalo who i like so much and is very funny in the movie but funny by telling jokes on herself by saying things to uma thurman like you burp and men think it's adorable
well it's sad that somebody this talented and so good really has to do this kind of low self esteem humor
but isn't it a tradition with women humorous of any sort that women are allowed to have a sense of humor if it's about putting themselves down
it's the phyllis diller joan rivers tradition of comedy and it should be stopped
even though it's very amusing to see janeane garofalo do this we're sort of used to seeing her do this she's the only reason why i liked this movie
she's the only reason it's elevated beyond a mere piffle of a t. v. movie because she's in it
uma thurman looks beautiful and for that matter so does ben chaplin
he looks beautiful too
he's kind of a find as far as a stud goes and he can act but
but wasn't he didn't you think
it's a long joke
it goes on a long time don't you think
well yes because he takes so long to figure out the alleged obvious
well he's a bimbo in this
that's the only good thing
yes he's roxanne
he's the bimbo
he definitely is roxanne but he takes so long that you worry about his sanity that he can't figure out who's who in this movie
and if janeane's going to really want him in the end because she's so with it and she's so sharp is she going to want this guy who takes so long to put two and two together
exactly
and i'm also troubled in the fact that they set it up that he likes her personality but loves uma's looks as if men wouldn't go for someone who has a great personality and is not only
no i think he
there are no uma thurmans in real life
well i disagree with that
there must be some because there is an uma thurman
you have so many in your past apparently
totally uma thurman is everywhere
they all come to you like moths to a flame
yes
the sad part is janeane garofalo is great
she needs a great movie
this isn't it
this isn't it
she does need a good one but she's worth seeing in this movie
that's what she said
and that's what he said
we know what they said but will cats and dogs capture the hearts of you the moviegoers
we'll have the answer on monday
see you then
in new york i'm laurin sydney
and in hollywood i'm jim moret
we leave you today with suzanne vega performing a tune from the the truth about cats and dogs
for everyone at showbiz today thanks for watching have a great weekend
timothy mcveigh oklahoma city and militias in general
incredibly sadly it's happening again a new threat of terror right here in the united states
agents say they've raided a bombmaking operation in georgia
is there an olympic connection
get the very latest
meet a militia expert and we'll talk to the lawyer who dares to defend oklahoma bombing suspect timothy mcveigh
stand by to talk back
welcome to talkback live
i'm miles o'brien in for susan rook today
it's getting so you have to ask yourself is this really the united states of america
can the most powerful country on earth really be under siege by its own angry citizens
a few hours ago agents raided what they say was a bombmaking factory in the state of georgia the state soon to host the ninety six summer games
this just a week after the first anniversary of the oklahoma bombing
c. n. n.'s art harris joins us now here on the set
thanks for joining us art
art is with our special assignment unit and he's been working this story all morning
art just bring us up to date
what do we know about these arrests
well miles what we know is that sources tell c. n. n. that this morning in south georgia middle georgia near the town of knoxville we've had two arrests one of a militia type another fellow who also is described to be a militia member robert edward starr the third thirty four roberta georgia and william mcraney a plumber who worked at the americas high school
bomb components were found on starr's property allegedly
these were chemicals sources tell us that can be used in making bombs and quite a large quantity enough to make several pipe bombs
now art there were some reports earlier that this might have some sort of a olympic connection that these pipe bombs this plot might have something to do with the olympics
do we have that confirmed one way or another yet
no that was apparently a report that was erroneous
there is on hard connection to any olympics or plot to bomb the olympics at all
robert starr is not a stranger to talkback live
in fact a year ago he was on this program
let's listen to what he had to say a year ago here on talkback live
what i would like to say is a couple of years ago president clinton invited the gang leaders across the country to have a conference and talk about the issues that concern them
i would like to challenge mr. clinton president clinton to invite militia leaders from across the country and give them the same privilege to discuss these issues and try to resolve them
if it's so important which i think it is and he obviously does too 'cause he's been talking a lot about it let's resolve it
all right that's robert starr apparently arrested right now federal charges apparently the makings of pipe bombs unclear where those pipe bombs might have been added
bernadette has a question
go ahead bernadette
even though you're not sure if these have to do anything with the olympics is there going to be stepped up security measures in case of this
bernadette we've had thousands of federal state law enforcement agents training for just this sort of thing for over a year
and the f. b. i. two weeks ago had a last week actually had a training exercise that went very well our sources tell us at lake linear hostage situation they rehearsed
the a. t. f. has been training georgia law enforcement down at the federal law enforcement training center in brunswick on bombers like this alleged bombers
and there is a tremendous amount of security precautions going on
all right we have one more guest we want to bring in
joining us now from boston is a lawyer well known for his work in the civil rights movement and the author of the new book gathering storm america's militia threat
morris dees we thank you for joining us on talkback live today
glad to be here
you know in watching robert start there who was on your program earlier i think that's what we've seen with the militias coat and tie people who look reasonable but behind the scenes they're selling books on building bombs and building bombs
this militia movement in the small cells like his that are building these bombs do pose a serious threat
all right mr. dees does any of this news today surprise you whether there's an olympic connection or not
no you know in nineteen eighty four there was a group called the order that had plans to blow up buildings at the nineteen eighty four olympics
the f. b. i. broke up that plot and they were a paramilitary group
it wouldn't surprise me if something like this might happen relative to the olympics but it doesn't surprise me about robert starr 'cause we've been tracking him at the militia task force for quite a while
we've had him on our data basis and have been watching him
he has a militia group that he calls a militia at large for the republic of georgia
all right let's get a question in from heather
go ahead heather
what i would like to know is what exactly are materials that are considered bombmaking materials
as far as i know any one of us could have bombmaking materials in our own homes
and are we at risk from the government looking into our houses to see if we have fertilizer that could be used to make a bomb possibly
good question art harris
i mean this ammonium nitrate which was involved in oklahoma city is used on farms perfectly legitimate right
and if you're a farmer i'm sure that you have no problems
but in this case heather they found bombmaking components that include chemicals that are very volatile and are used in making these kinds of pipe bombs
mr. dees do you want to add to that
i think there's more to it than that
heather can go buy a sack of ammonium nitrate and you can buy a thousand pounds heather and put it in your garage
that's not bombmaking
if you had diesel fuel to mix with it if you had something to detonate it like dynamite if you had allonimum powders to mix with it to make it burn hotter and you had something to compress it in like a pipe bomb or a barrel it was in that's what the a. t. f. is talking about when they mean bombmaking material
a witch's brew indeed
seth you have a question
go ahead
yes
dealing with the numbers of militias in the united states i was wondering if there was a definite count per state and things of that nature and if there was any kind of percentage or hard numbers of those that were considered dangerous or threatening in any way
mr. dees do you want to take that
well we issued a report last week
we sent it to the attorney general listing eight hundred eleven militia type groups
most militia groups quite frankly don't have militia in their name like the minnesota patriots council
there's one in georgia called american first party
they've got a lot of different names
how many of them are dangerous
it's hard to tell
most of the dangerous ones are small secret cells that you don't even find out their names
on the cover of my book i have a photograph of one taken in november out in idaho where these guys were training to be snipers
they had masks on their faces
there are a lot of good people that join militia groups people that are frustrated with the government
you've probably seen them on television
they're frustrated with taxing and frustrated with immigration policies
but what we have behind those are men like robert starr who obviously at least allegedly based on the charges would probably resort to violence in order to carry out those means
all right let me ask you we've heard a lot about these militia and patriot groups since the oklahoma city bombing
is that simply because the media is now focused on it or is this problem truly burgeoning right now
well the media is certainly focused on it after oklahoma city
and we saw a lot of benign looking grandfather fellows with coats and ties who claim the militia was simply just a neighborhood watch to help the police in times of tornadoes and crisis
but that's very deceptive as i pointed out earlier
i think the number of militia groups or far right extremist patriot groups that might violence is growing
at least we're finding out more about them
the public's attention has been focused on it for sure lately
all right art has something to add here
go ahead art
morris as you probably know it's much more difficult now to penetrate these groups than in the seventies when you know the undercover agents and a. t. f. and f. b. i. knew you know the command structures
now these are more individual cells
they're much more difficult to identify
they're renegade types who are not tied into any large organization
and that's what makes them so potentially dangerous
all right we have a phone call
sarah from virginia you're on the line
do you have a question
yes
i find it ironic that two of the powerful congressmen from georgia newt gingrich and congressman barr were instrumental in watering down the anti terrorism bill that just passed congress
i mean especially congressman barr who wanted to get rid of everything that would help law enforcement to keep track of these militia people
i just find it ironic that here in georgia now you're faced with it and congressman barr and congressman gingrich should answer for that
thank you
all right she's talking about the anti terrorism bill
a number of these militia types you talk to will tell you that they are very angry about the anti terrorism bill
they call it an anti american bill because it will allow government to in effect spy on people like them and perhaps take action that deprive them of their liberties that in some cases would be justified
and you know al that's really not accurate at all
the anti terrorist bill has really turned out to be a speed up the death penalty bill
the things that could have been put in like making ammonium nitrate inert was omitted
it's not very likely that this bill will cause much spying on people because the roving wire tap portion was omitted
i think that congress does pardon me the f. b. i. doesn't need any new authority to deal with these groups
and i think they're doing a good job with it now
all right mr. dees we're going to do more on that in just a moment
we have to say goodbye right now to art harris
we thank you for coming in giving us this information
we appreciate it
when we return we'll let you get back to your breaking story by the way
according to the one source two of the men arrested today are mcveigh sympathizers
we'll talk about that and we will be joined by the man who's defending timothy mcveigh
that's next
stay with us
welcome back to talkback live
we're talking about the enemy within americans so angry with their own government they're willing to arm themselves and even strike out against innocent fellow americans
we continue to bring the latest on the raid of a reported bombmaking factory in the state of georgia today
sources say the two men arrested sympathize with timothy mcveigh the defendant in the oklahoma city bombing
ironically today's raid comes exactly one week to the day after the first anniversary of that terrible morning in oklahoma city
it was the deadliest terrorist attack on u. s. soil one hundred sixty eight people were killed in the bombing of the oklahoma city federal building
as of today we have no information showing that anyone but mr. mcveigh and mr. nichols were the masterminds of this bombing
tim mcveigh is behind bars in a federal prison in colorado
is everything still all right
great
you have no complaints
no nothing
they resolve every problem that i bring up
mcveigh's attorney says the government has more work to do before it pins the blame on his client alone
the oklahoma city bombing of the murrah building was planned financed and executed by foreign state or a terrorist group
mcveigh's trial is set to start in september but the court of public opinion seems to have already passed down a verdict
i want to see timothy mcveigh get convicted of whatever
i want to see him be executed
well there's one man determined that timothy mcveigh never pay the price for the oklahoma bombing one man who says mcveigh didn't do it and that man is mcveigh's attorney stephen jones who joins us now from oklahoma city
stephen jones is mcveigh connected at all to the militia movement
he absolutely is not and i disagree with almost everything that's been said in the first twenty minutes of this broadcast
first of all this book talks about america's militia threat
there wasn't any militia that are responsible for the deaths at ruby ridge waco or in philadelphia
the people that were responsible for those deaths were the government and america's threat is not the militia
it's the militarization of law enforcement
this book is simply another way to get gun control legislation passed by making the militia appear to be the threat when ninety nine point four four percent of the people that are members of the militia are law abiding citizens who are genuinely concerned about their country
and my client shouldn't even be in this book
he's not a member of the militia
this book is riddled with errors
and this business that these people in georgia are sympathizers of tim mcveigh is utter rubbish
what you people are doing is crucifying and convicting my client on television
that's what you're doing
but mr. jones i'm going to show you a book right here
it's called the turner diaries and this book is by wide accounts considered tim mcveigh's bible
he had it with him at all times
he used to actually sell it to people for five dollars as if to spread the word
this book talks about a militia revolution in this government a race war and ultimately a bombing at the f. b. i. headquarters which was an awful lot like what happened in oklahoma city
there's also been numerous reports of his at least connection
is there a question somewhere in there
i'm getting to it
there are numerous reports that he has connections to these militia groups
now how do you refute all of that
i have a copy of william faulkner's sanctuary in my library at home
in that book temple drake is raped by popeye with a corn cob
that doesn't mean that i believe in raping women with a corn cob
how ridiculous can you be
but it's not in your back pocket
it's not in your back pocket right now
sam has a question here
go ahead sam
how do you know it's not in my back pocket
is it
as a matter of fact it's a very good novel
is it
no but it's on my library table
i'm reading it now
are you selling it for five dollars
no i'm not in the book selling business
o. k. sam go ahead with your question
one of my questions is why did you decide to take the case
i was appointed by the federal judge
it's my duty to accept it when it was tendered to me
i had no conflict of interest
all right tell me about did you ever think about not accepting the appointment
it would have been unprofessional and a violation of my oath to refuse to accept the appointment
all right let me give mr. dees a chance to weigh in here
you heard a lot of what mr. jones had to say in response to what we were saying
first let me say that i respect mr. stephen jones as one of the finest lawyers in america
and his taking this case is a lawyer coming to the highest calling a lawyer can come to
this man has on his shoulders the life of a young man who's been accused of a bombing and they're seeking the death penalty
the f. b. i. has leaked an enormous amount of material about timothy mcveigh some of which i have in my book some of which i got from other places
they've also leaked the same kind of material about the unabomber
and that's the abhorrent because this man is presumed to be innocent
i said it in my book many many times
he's presumed to be innocent until that case goes to the jury
all right let's get a question in from scott
go ahead
yes mr. dees do you find that public sympathy is growing for militias
and in your dealings and studyings of militias do you find that often the leaders try to hide behind the second amendment where it says that a well regulated militia is definitely called for
well yes that's certainly the interpretation of the second amendment
they believe that your right to bear arms and have weapons is meant for all citizens at all times
you know i think that forty something states have laws that outlaw private militias
but let me say this about timothy mcveigh and militias
timothy mcveigh was not a member of any militia group
he was not a member of any particular group that i know of
timothy mcveigh pretty much operated his own if the evidence we see is to be believed
the michigan militia people said he came by a meeting they threw him out because he was too violent
that may or may not be true
that's just what's been reported
mcveigh certainly was a believer in the turner diaries
he's admitted reading it and he's admitted that he had quite a bit of material that these foreign government have pardon me these patriot groups passed around
possibly he visited a group down in elohim city a group that's very anti semitic
i don't want to at this stage argue the case against timothy mcveigh
i mean there are things that if you believe the f. b. i. timothy mcveigh would have a very difficult time overcoming like his fingerprint being on the receipt for the purchase of two thousand pounds of ammonium nitrate
that may not even be true
all right we'll get to the evidence in a second
we also want to welcome some students from american university who are joining us in washington
they join us now on the m. c. i. desktop video conferencing
eric has our first question
go ahead eric
yes i was wondering if militias have become a scapegoat for this act
could it just be a random act of violence not a conspiracy
mr. jones
well first of all i'm not aware of any acts of violence that have been completed by any organized militia group
i suppose individual members may commit crimes just like individual episcopalians or republicans commit crimes
but i think the i respect morris and i understand the point he's trying to make but i don't think there's a militia threat
we're trying to make it one but morris himself says that most of these people are law abiding citizens
they may be a little overwrought about some government activity but i think that there's a completely different position between say the militias and the klan which morris has courageously fought for years at some risk to himself and groups like the order
we're running out of time
quick question from ragab and then we're going to go
mr. jones i think it's great that you're representing a man that's innocent until proven guilty
but how does it feel that you might be representing the same man that also robbed the life of innocent unracist children
and at the same time are you if you do find a loophole to give timothy mcveigh a break aren't you condoning everything a militia does and stand for
all right we're going to hold that question and i'll give you an opportunity to think about your response mr. jones
we're going to take a break
when we return we'll get the answer to that question and we'll talk about how a person might defend timothy mcveigh
it's a tall order
stay with us
the situation here is a lot better than it was in
day and night
good good
generally and overall you're satisfied you're upbeat
yeah things are looking better
we're back
the subject is timothy mcveigh oklahoma city and militias in general
and just before the break there was a question for mr. jones and to paraphrase it just briefly it essentially was if you knew that the client was guilty in this case would you have any problems handling the defense
now mr. jones first of all have you ever asked timothy mcveigh if he did it
well i think it's fair to say that i ask the client any client to tell me what the facts are as he understands them
all right
can you tell us about his response
number
i'm precluded from doing so by the rules of my oath of office and the laws of the state of oklahoma
all right is there any ethical quandary that you faced in taking this case
there is not
simple as that
i think mr. jones would be unethical if he didn't take the case
it's those unpopular cases like gerry spence representing randy weaver up in oklahoma that make our profession great
but i want to call stephen's hand on something here
he says the militias hadn't been guilty of any crimes
well in muskogee oklahoma which isn't too far from his hometown in enid yesterday a federal jury after a one month trial found three members of the constitution militia of oklahoma ray lampley guilty of mixing a fertilizer bomb to come blow up the southern poverty law center where i work
and the f. b. i. agents raided them
they were mixing the bomb in the they were in the process of mixing the bomb when they were arrested
i am assume they'll be sentenced shortly
all right let's take a phone call
kay from pennsylvania you have a question or a comment
hi i have a question for mr. jones
go ahead
i'd like to know if there's been any credible evidence that there was a suspect number two john doe and if there's anybody else that's come to light you know like if they know that somebody else that's out there
well i think it would be appropriate for me to discuss the evidence as i have received it but i can simply say that there are numerous press reports indicating that people in junction city kansas on the day in question saw the individual identified as john doe number two
the credibility of those people will be tested at the trial and it will be for the jury to determine if what they saw is accurate
you know there may well be a john doe number two but because there's a john doe number two three four and five if those people that are guilty in this conspiracy one has already pled guilty
michael fortier said that he road with mcveigh down to oklahoma city from kingman arizona to look at the building to bomb
you know i think these people that might be involved and i agree with stephen jones that there are other people involved in this conspiracy probably five six seven who knows where they're from
i think this is a homegrown conspiracy
i don't think it extends all over the world though
all right let's get back to american university another eric there with a question or comment
go ahead eric
yes how can a jury find justice after the president of the united states and the attorney general have already requested the death penalty
well it's going to be very difficult but i'm hoping that the people in denver will have sufficient civic pride and obligation for their oath that they will give my client a fair trial
and to take the point that morris made about mr. fortier there's an excellent example
the jury will have to decide which michael fortier they believe the one that told c. n. n. the los angeles times and everybody else that he wasn't involved that mcveigh wasn't involved and he didn't know anything about it or the statement that he made in court after the government found evidence that he had been involved in drugs that was he involved
now who knows which is true
a man's life hangs in the balance
also the government might have to look at jennifer mcveigh who i think i know what her statement is
i don't want to state it on television here but she apparently is going to give a statement that's very damaging to her brother and i don't know that they necessarily broke her arm to get it from her
of course they broke her arm
they took her into a room and had pictures all over it saying death penalty as though they'd been following her since the day she was born
of course she was scared out of her mind
so would you
so would i
all right all of this leads to gentlemen we have to take a break right now
this all leads up to the topic of discussion on our next segment
has timothy mcveigh already been tried in the court of public opinion
do you think he's guilty
stay with us for that
we're back and we're talking now about terroristic violence in america including oklahoma city
and joining us from oklahoma city is the lawyer representing timothy mcveigh accused in that bombing
his name is stephen jones
and from boston morris dees with the southern poverty law center and he is a civil rights attorney
thank you both gentlemen for joining us
our first question has to do with the media's role in all this and it comes from matt
go ahead matt
mr. jones i want to know why if you're so certain your client is innocent why are you so afraid of the media seeking out truth and finding out what really happened
if you really believe he's innocent then you'd want the media looking into it and want them searching all that they can find to find the real guilty person
i don't have any problem with that question a tall i think that's accurately put
but the caveat in your question was reporting the truth
it was not the truth that my client gave only name rank and serial number as the washington post headlined
it was not the truth that he said he was a political prisoner
it was not the truth that he was out of the special forces because he failed the psychological test
the test wasn't even graded until two days after he was arrested which was about three years after he was in the special forces briefly
nor is it true that he had a list of other targets that allegedly he was going to bomb
all of those stories received front page nationwide attention
none of them is true
all right mr. jones there was a question which came up on our overnight forum on compuserve
kathy nicholson said i believe any attorney who would willingly take this case is looking for fame and fortune alluding to the media attention which goes along with all of this
how do you respond to that
well you all asked me to appear here today
i didn't call you up
o. k. o. k. but there is a certain amount that goes along with all this
we also saw the o. j. simpson trial and all those spectacular book deals which came out of that
marcia clark becomes a household name
how do you respond to that statement
well i don't wish to be offensive but the truth of the matter is i had a very nice income a very comfortable income a very nice house and a lovely family and i have managed to avoid appearing on c. n. n. for fifty six years
i'm sure i can go back and do the way i used to live when this is over with
o. k.
not any time soon i'm afraid
david you have a question
yes
mr. jones i was wondering the constitution is composed of many different entities and i'm sure that militias use the constitution
will you use that as your car to pull in the case
no and i'm not a member of a militia neither is my client
what i am simply saying is that there is an enormous amount of frustration with the government in this country as exhibited by incidents such as philadelphia waco and ruby ridge along with certain social policies that many people find unacceptable
they are genuinely concerned about the future of the country
some of them as mr. dees points out commit crimes
policemen commit crimes
senators commit crimes
a vice president of the united states committed a crime
but it doesn't mean that all policemen vice presidents or politicians are crooked any more than all members of the militia are a threat to our security
all right we have a question here from ming
go ahead ming
i was just wondering to mr. jones you keep mentioning that there's a lot of concern legitimate concerns of citizens and frustrations with the government
and i wondered what kinds of concerns have already been expressed that maybe link to this bombing
i think that in the midwest there has been a growing disenchantment with the government leading back to the farm policies of the mid nineteen seventies when farmers were encouraged by government to mortgage their farms and to borrow money
and then government not the farmers but government destroyed those agricultural values in one night by the grain embargo in afghanistan and tens of thousands of farmers lost the family homestead
and i think that's really where the frustration and anger started and has only built since then
mr. dees would you concur
well you know i'm listening to all this and we've had problems for a long time
but i think most citizens and true patriots line up at the ballot box to deal with those problems
i want to address something else here
stephen talked about the things that the media has said
i would like to be able to have a criminal justice system like they have in england and canada where we don't deal with the facts until we have a trial
but unfortunately that's not the case
but the things he brings up about timothy mcveigh the media says about how he flunked out of the military if he didn't
some of the things though that the media has brought up like supposedly timothy mcveigh used april nineteenth nineteen seventy two as a birth date on a driver's license that he got to rent the truck
robert cling was the name he used
that may or may not be true but if that's true that's pretty damaging information
in addition mr. mcveigh was obsessed with waco
i understand he went there during the standoff and he went back after the standoff
now none of these things make him guilty of a crime
this simply just you know circumstantial kind of thing to show that he might have a motive
mcveigh wrote a letter in nineteen ninety two to his hometown newspaper i quoted in my book gathering storm
a letter that could have been written by anybody in this audience today complaining about the problems in the government
but he ended the letter different than i think most of you would end it
he says what are we going to have to do
are we going to have to have bloodshed to change america that's how he ended the letter he wrote in nineteen ninety two
timothy mcveigh is not your ordinary citizen protester
all right let's get a call in
number
his views are exactly like those of thomas jefferson
excuse me all right dan from california a question
go ahead
yes this is for mr. jones and mr. dees
i was just wondering since all the leaks from the government and through the media how do you expect your client mr. jones to get a fair trial or even the unabomber to get a fair trial
i can't speak about the alleged unabomber but i believe that judge matsch who is the judge in our case is absolutely committed to giving a fair trial in appearance as well as reality
i'm convinced of that
and one of the reasons and you've used it today that i allow the television networks to come in and take pictures of tim mcveigh is that i wanted to make it clear to certain extremist groups that may have some agenda that is not ours that mr. mcveigh is well treated in prison
the warden and staff at englewood are respecting his rights and privacy in allowing us to work
and that was my contribution towards reducing the paranoia
and there you see it there in front of you that was a constructive thing
surely some of your goal was to soften his image before the general public
no that wasn't my goal at all
i don't need to soften his image
the image of him coming out of perry was incorrect
and if i could just go back to what morris said tim mcveigh on the day he was arrested in perry weighed one hundred sixty pounds and stood six feet two inches' tall
the robert cling that you are referring to was described as being five to ten to l. l. weighing one hundred eighty to one hundred eighty five pounds with green eyes and acne
that is not a description that fits tim mcveigh
that's a matter of public record
all right time for us to take a break
ahead oklahoma city lessons learned
what's in the anti terrorism bill that congress passed last week and the president signed
and what doesn't mr. jones like about it
that's when we return
there's nothing to stop people who are crazy or fanatical from doing some of these terrorist acts
welcome back to talkback live
let's talk a little bit about now the anti terrorism law
we saw some of the changes going into this segment
among other things it limits federal appeals on death penalty cases and it allows closed circuit televised court proceedings for out of state victims
now will this affect mcveigh's trial
mr. jones how does this pay into your trial
i know you have a problem with these closed circuit t. v. broadcasts
well first of all i agree with what morris said
this isn't an anti terrorism bill this is a speed up the death penalty act which the victims' association which composes only about twenty percent of the victims in oklahoma city supported
i don't know that they knew that this legislation had absolutely nothing to do with tim mcveigh since he's a federal prisoner
it only affects state prisoners
but i do oppose the lucas amendment
congressman frank lucas is a friend of mine i helped raise money for him
i've contributed to his campaigns
i admire him but i think he is mistaken here
congress can no more tell judge matsch what he can do in his courtroom than judge matsch can tell congress it should televise its proceedings
we have two sometimes three well always three co equal branches of government
that's a separation of power principle and i think that frank is tinkering with that
we will oppose it
we are also going to ask the judge to quit selling these audio tapes
today you played one of them
you used a sound byte from the government which first of all is not true
the government does have evidence they say publicly they don't have
and i know they have it because they've shared it with me
but it was a good sound byte for the six o'clock news and it influences the jury
and that's the very type of thing that you get with closed circuit television and audio tapes and we will oppose it and ask the judge not to permit it
as we said earlier robert starr was on our show last year
he's one of the two men that were arrested today by federal authorities in central georgia allegedly for trying to put together explosive devices
here's what he had to say about this issue when he was on our show a year ago
again we are a defensive mechanism just like the fellow from texas had said numerous times
in the anti terrorism bill that will pretty much strip the rights not just of us but of anybody that is determined to be a terrorist by the president
it will strip you of your rights
all right question from guy
does mr. jones think that tommy mcveigh should be executed if he's found guilty so we can now start using this capital punishment to cut down on crimes such of this nature
i don't think it's been demonstrated that capital punishment would reduce a terrorist act
a terrorist act generally for ideological motives and the threat of punishment is not a deterrent for them if in fact it's a deterrent for anyone
but no i do not believe that mr. mcveigh should be executed if in fact he is convicted
i think this is a good point to make at this point stephen
you make a good point
there are two trials here and i don't know if the public knows that
first there's a guilt trial and then there's a penalty trial
and in my book i have a chapter called the almost perfect soldier and in it i make the assumption that mcveigh is guilty after certainly giving him the benefit of the doubt
i make that assumption and make up kind of an argument for him that i would make
and that is if he is in fact guilty if he is and the evidence will show he's guilty then a strategy might be used to save his life that would be quite different than coming up with a lot of excuses why he didn't do it when there's overwhelming evidence because a jury's got to sit down and determine what they're going to do with him afterwards
and i agree with stephen jones i don't believe in the death penalty
and i think that you can honor the lives of the one hundred sixty eight people that died as mr. jones said in a press release he issued right after he was appointed this case without executing the person who might have done it
all right we have a question from our compuserve forum and it has to do with how this is affecting mr. jones' personal life
have you gotten death threats for representing tim mcveigh
a few
how concerned are you
have you taken security precautions
i take security precautions for my family and my employees and my home
as for myself i move too quickly
o. k. all right
on that note we'll take a break
we'll give you the last word when we return to talkback
stay with us
welcome back to talkback live
i'd like to acknowledge some of the members of our audience some of these young people who have been giving some great questions here
they are the coca cola scholars some of the best and brightest high school students in the u. s.
and you've done a great job asking some good questions
now art harris of our special assignment unit has returned
he has an update on the story we've been telling you about all throughout this program the arrest of two men
the charges are that they had bombmaking supplies and they have some links to militias
art what do you have for us
well miles we've just gotten the arrest warrant that's been faxed to us and according to it the agents who have gone undercover to bust these guys say that they bragged about having enough explosives to make forty pipe bombs and that they had planned to put them together this saturday night and wrap the pipe bombs with nails to increase the fragmentation
and so it appears that according to this affidavit they were busted just in the nick of time
all right we have no idea what the target was at this point
correct
all right mr. dees what do we know about this group
do you know anything about these georgia militia groups
we've been following this group for quite a while in particular mr. starr himself
we have sources that provide information to us
and he's a very very dangerous man
when he appeared on this show talkback live he appeared to be reasonable and a kind of person that you might think that was speaking for the concerns of this country
and i'd like to close my part of this out by saying that if timothy mcveigh is in fact guilty i think that he felt that when he set that bomb off at that building that he was acting as a patriot a true soldier trying to save this nation from a tyranny that he believed that was gripping our country
and i think that as he drove away from there if he is guilty and heard that explosion he felt that those innocent people who died was dying in enemy territory as he viewed that federal building
i hope that's not the case but i believe that that's what it might show if he's guilty
art is showing me the arrest warrant here
it talks a little bit about the motivation
yeah morris it dovetails what you have to say because in the arrest warrant one of these fellows bragged that the pipe bombs would be used to defend their rights against the invasion of the government so they obviously saw this as a defensive weapon
all right let's go back to american university the teleconference
emily do you have a question
yes i have a question for mr. jones
i was wondering if it was better for your client's case to separate him from terry nichols' case
yes we will ask for separate trials
the judge will rule on that in september i believe
and at that time he will set a trial date whether it be one trial or two
i also want to say morris i read the chapter in your book and made lots of notes
thank you
if i can help you let me know
all right olivia a question from you
yeah i just want to make a quick comment to stephen jones
i wanted to thank you for coming on air and finally giving us the other side of the timothy mcveigh issue
i think it's important that finally the media isn't one sided
and you being on air helps that a lot
thank you
thank you
o. k. let's go over to allyson
i want to know what laws are there to protect us
i mean we're here in atlanta and what if we were hit by a pipe bomb
i mean if they are not wanting to pass that legislature to protect the victims then what do you suggest to provide us with protection in the law
there are enough laws on the books to protect you
we don't need any terrorism legislation
i think very little that was passed there did any good
georgia laws and federal laws that allow them to arrest these fellows today would protect you
and i think you can feel safe if our agents federal agents and others enforce the laws that are on the books
and i think stephen would agree with me
all right jason do you agree
jason go ahead
o. k. this is to mr. jones
i realize that you have a very hard job defending someone who's completely hated in america but what i wanted to say is a comment on militias just in general is that it seems that militias want to you know gain more members and increase their influence in america
and i just don't feel that their current way of doing things by you know gruesome acts of violence and destroying innocent people is the right way to go
and if militias are going to continue this they're not going to be influential
they're going to be just looked at as just disgusting groups rather than a maybe you know plausible impact
and i just feel that they should redirect their efforts do something a little more useful
that's what i feel
well i don't disagree with that
i think it's just simply a question of whether you suspend the first amendment the second amendment with respect to them
but clearly the answer to the problems is at the ballot box
all right katelyn you have a question
no just a comment
i'd like to say that i don't think the media is culpable for this
they're just doing their own job
and i think that we should be blaming the people who actually did the thing who actually committed the crime
comment from either gentlemen
mr. dees
yes
well you know i think she makes a good point there
and i want to say this about what stephen said
nobody's talking about suspending the first amendment
to speak you don't need bombs and a. k. forty sevens
and the second amendment talks about a well regulated militia
and the supreme court has said time and time again that means a state national guard or a militia that's regulated by the state
you can't have private armies running around mr. starr is here and mr. jones is there and others
we can't have private armies because that's simply anarchy
all right mr. dees has the last word
stephen jones morris dees we appreciate you joining us
thanks to the people who joined at american university and thanks to the coca cola scholars who joined us in our studio a understand and of course art harris who joined us twice
monday cross examine o. j.'s lawyer
what robert shapiro what does he have against some members of the defense team
ask him
he'll answer your questions on monday
a grown from the audience
and next on inside politics white house press secretary mike mccurry
don't go away
we'll see you on monday
gathering storm america's militia threat by morris dees available in bookstores
in california a crime story you may not want to believe but you'll definitely want to hear
police say the suspect was bent on revenge and targeted his victim because he was helpless
the victim is four weeks old
the suspect six years old and now charged with attempted murder
fred wayne has the latest
the family of a six year old boy arrives for a hearing on whether the child should remain locked up in juvenile hall
the boy faces an attempted murder charge for allegedly beating a neighbor's one month old baby
prosecutors say the boy dumped the infant out of his bassinet punched and kicked him and hit him with a broom stick
he's got two separate fractures of the skull that's caused some internal bleeding on the brain
the young defendant is also charged with attempting to steal a tricycle from the neighbor's house
police charged two friends eight year old twin brothers with burglary but not with attacking the baby
he's just a little tiny munchkin is what he is
defense attorney leslie bialik thinks her young client does not belong behind locked doors
juvenile hall is not equipped to handle such young kids
juvenile hall is prepared to handle teen agers
but the prosecution claims the boy threatened to kill the baby before the crime and should be held accountable despite his age
if we can show that that six year old knew the difference between right and wrong and he beat this infant within an inch of its life i think there is a right and a duty to assign social responsibility for it
the prosecution says if the victim dies the charge against the six year old boy will be upgraded to murder
the boy is believed to be the youngest child to be charged with such a serious crime in california history
the case raises questions about guilt and punishment for children so young
i know of very few either experts in law or in child psychology that would assume that a six year old would be capable of forming an intent in a case like this
if convicted the boy could be sentenced to slightly more than ten years in locked facility
the defense says a more humane option would be placement in a residential facility
that way the boy would grow up receiving treatment as a troubled child instead of punishment as a criminal
fred wayne for c. n. n. martinez california
picture spending the rest of your life of luxury in a wooded landscape of pastures streams and hills
mm
almost sounds too good to be true but there is a place just like that
however you're not invited
you need a lot more weight and a much bigger nose to get in
in tonight's different story c. n. n.'s brian cabell takes us to a resort that's restricted to the so called really really big
it is a fatiguing anxious seven hundred mile journey from tampa to central tennessee
the trip is especially trying because the elephant inside this custom made trailer barbara by name is exceedingly thin and depressed
but something new and unexpected lies ahead
barbara has arrived at an elephant sanctuary
the only one of it's kind in the nation
but is she all right
her curious probing trunk seems to say yes
the trailer door opens and barbara an alert but suspicious twenty six year old asian elephant takes her first tentative steps at her new home
she is gaunt because she's eaten almost nothing during the trip and very little the last several months
but she appears composed
from what i hear she's never shown any signs of aggression
she gets along with everybody and she's a happy animal
and i think when you look at her you see she's got bright eyes she looks content she's not high strung
but problems began for her several years ago when she left the circus life to breed
for some reason she couldn't
she lost weight and was finally separated from her herd lonely and a failure
but now in her new home she's begun eating ravenously a buffet of fruits and vegetables
an even greater surprise lies ahead
another asian elephant twenty two year old tara the first elephant in the sanctuary but lonely as well
she hasn't seen another of her species in two years
they approach one another touch trunks say hello
though complete strangers they immediately like each other share food caress one another with their trunks
carol buckley the sanctuary co founder beams with joy
barbara's new home which she'll explore tomorrow is one hundred twelve acres of hills pasture ponds and a stream
it is a haven for elephants unwanted by zoos or circuses
dawn arrives the next day
tara the old timer comfortably lumbers out of the barn to greet the day
barbara follows slowly hesitantly not quite certain what to make of the scene in front of her
a vast open space probably similar to what the ancestors of these huge beasts once enjoyed
it's not going to be identical to their natural herd environment but we're trying our best and its the least we can do for these species since we have destroyed their lives the way we have
there's no thought of destroyed lives this fine spring day
tara finally has a girl friend
and barbara has freedom hope companionship and the prospect of other unwanted elephants likely to join them in the years ahead
brian cabell c. n. n. bolingwald tennessee
i think i'd be happy there too
that looked nice
um hum
let's go
the flame that will launch this summer's olympic games began its journey to the u. s. today
the olympic flame was handled to olympic officials from atlanta after being carried by runners through greece
it was ignited by the sun in olympia during a ceremony seen live on c. n. n. last month
the olympic torch will pass through ten thousand hands on its journey to atlanta and that's where c. n. n.'s anne mcdermott takes up the story
frank kelley is one of the oldest olympic torch bearers but that doesn't mean he doesn't work out each day by walking and by not worrying
i don't have anything to worry about
i think worry is the cause of a lot of disgruntled people and unhappy people
so is he happy
oh i'm the luckiest person in the world i think
but enough idle chit chat
he's in training
kelley was nominated for torch bearing duties by colleagues at the united way where he's done volunteer work for decades
so tell us mr. kelley what's your secret
oh early to bed early to rise
keep
allows a man to carry the olympic torch
that's it
you said it
and how is your torch relay training coming along gregory boyle
been doing much
i would say virtually none
but he's not worried
he's always active thanks to his community work helping former gang members find jobs by creating businesses to employ them like this silk screening company
it's caring and concern like this that earned boyle his spot in the olympic torch relay
he's like a father to all of us
in fact he's a father to a lot of people
gregory boyle is a roman catholic priest
then there's scolly keith a school teacher in compton california very demanding school teacher
is that a proper noun or a common noun
sarah
very good
a tough lady and yet she touches her students
so much so that this one wrote a letter nominating her as a torch bearer
she helps people
she loves people and that is one of the basic characteristics of a hero
the olympians will carry this torch which includes a burner device designed by students and faculty at georgia tech in atlanta
don't worry it won't go out
students conducted tests to ensure that see
the torch bearers will run a route taking them through forty two states and the torch will be carried by ten thousand torch bearers
frank kelley though won't be running with his torch
he'll walk thank you
after all in a couple of weeks he has a birthday coming up his ninety sixth
anne mcdermott c. n. n. los angeles
should americans be concerned about mad cow disease
the u. s. government is speeding up new rules aimed at making sure the illness doesn't become a problem
in the meantime the livestock industry has called for voluntary measures
but the effectiveness of those measures is being called into question
c. n. n.'s eugenia halsey has more in our news from medicine report
britain's mad cow disease has never been detected in the united states
still as a precautionary measure the u. s. livestock industry last month announced a voluntary ban on the practice of feeding sheep and cow remains to cattle
it's believed that the practice spread the malady in britain from sheep to cows and then possibly to people
but dairy farmer bruce krug of upstate new york says the voluntary ban isn't air tight that some farmers still give their cows meat and bone meal like this in part because it's cheaper than grain and some feed dealers are still supplying it
the so called voluntary ban that the national cattlemen's association has put into place is a phony
it's smoke and mirrors it's public relations over the public good
the cattlemen's association insist the voluntary ban is genuine
but several key groups including the feed industry and the renderers who turn animal by products into feed never agreed to the ban
they say u. s. measures taken prior to britain's mad cow crisis such as screening out diseased sheep from the food supply already insure american meat is safe
we're convinced that this voluntary ban is not based on science and we don't believe that the american public wants to change the entire system without science
still a consumer group says a mandatory ban on use of sheep and cow tissue is prudent
i think the important thing and the lesson to be learned from england is that cautionary very cautionary behavior and activity is mandated in this case
the food and drug administration has already announced plans for a mandatory ban
a spokesperson says the agency is giving it the highest priority with a proposed rule expected in a few weeks
but the final rule wouldn't go into effect for another year so public voice is calling for an interim ban
the f. d. a. says it doesn't have the authority to do that but is pushing farmers renderers and other groups to comply with the voluntary ban in the meantime
eugenia halsey c. n. n. washington
well the torch is lit and the journey has begun to atlanta which is less than ninety days away from hosting this year's summer olympics
is the city ready
joining us now to discuss the olympic game plan is ginger watkins the managing director of corporate services for the olympic games
ms. watkins thanks for joining us tonight
thank you for inviting me
the f. b. i. says there is apparently no connection however there were some militia members in central georgia arrested today for allegedly making bombs
this raises the question of olympic security
what is acog doing to protect olympic athletes and spectators
acog is very comfortable with the security plan that we have in place now
through the efforts of all of the governmental agencies that are involved from the d. o. d. the f. b. i. the g. b. i. and all the local authorities who have come together and worked in a coordinated effort
these will be the most technology advanced games as far as security is concerned and the most secure games
we are really comfortable with all of the security plans that have been put in place through all of these efforts
has the system been tested
any mock trials
the system is tested every day in its planning process and as i said we're all very comfortable with it
all of the details of it will remain with the security agencies that are involved
but there is a tremendous amount of coordinated effort to put forth the security of these games
well what will you do to ensure the public make the public feel comfortable with this system
well the public is a very important constituency as a part of these games so there is great effort that has been put into public safety as well as safety of the olympic family and safety of the athletes
so i believe the public will feel just as secure in their attendance of the games or in their being in atlanta at that particular time
security will be quite visible
it will be visible and i think people will feel comfortable but it won't be obtrusive
all right
let's talk about the olympic torch
it arrives in los angeles as i understand it on saturday is that right
yes saturday morning at eight o'clock o'clock
all right
why los angeles
los angeles has the great heritage to be a part of the olympic movement by hosting the games in nineteen thirty two and in nineteen eighty four and the contributions that it's made to the olympic movement and the citizens of californians and the citizens of l. a.
it's a tribute to them and an honor to bring this flame back into our great country through the last place that it resided
will there be some sort of ceremony to receive the torch
absolutely
there will be a formal ceremony that will take place at the los angeles airport and then a large public ceremony at the los angeles coliseum the home of the last flame during the olympic games in the united states
well we have a caller on the line from georgia who has a question for you
go ahead georgia
yes i'm calling from rosell georgia
i'm one of the olympic torch bearers and i'd like to know why is the atlanta route being kept such a secret
i'm trying to find information on where i'm going to be running and i've gotten no information at all
ms. watkins
the atlanta route is the last route that we will announce publicly because it is the last journey of the flame
as all of the final transportation plans throughout all of the venues within the atlanta area are firmed up and a part of the program
so it will be sometime in early june before we announce the route of the torch through atlanta
we expect many of atlanta's citizens to come out and be apart of this experience and we want to make it easy convenient and not a part of the games' traffic for those last two days
in anne mcdermott's story we saw a little map of how the torch will go across the country
can you tonight give us the direction of the torch
well the torch starts from l. a.
it goes south first then comes back through the san bernardino valley goes north then across the midwest to saint louis that hosted the games early in the century
then it goes south and back north through the northeastern part of the united states comes down the east coast through florida and back then into georgia through savannah
takes
now i'm sorry
go ahead
takes eighty four days
goes through forty two states
it's the largest torch relay that's ever been held anywhere in the world
all right ten thousand runners
tell me exactly how these runners were selected
the runners were selected through a process of sharing this olympic spirit and honoring america's heroes
we're honoring heroes that have been selected by their own communities across the country
over six thousand of these individuals have been selected
we're honoring olympians
we're honoring people who have friends and family members who wanted them to carry the torch and submitted their names
it was a very open process and it's quite thrilling to see as i saw a minute ago the nominees to carry this flame across the country
they're very diverse
they're diverse in age
they're diverse in areas from which they have come and the activities and the contributions they've made
ms. watkins that is all the time we have but we certainly appreciate your joining us tonight
ginger watkins managing director for corporate services of acog
we appreciate your joining us and also appreciate our callers for joining in as well
thank you
it's all things considered
i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
in georgia today federal officials arrested two militia members in connection with a bomb plot
the bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms arrested robert starr and williams james mckrainey junior for possessing unregistered explosives which they were allegedly planning to make into pipe bombs
despite earlier reports federal officials deny that the men planned to use the explosives at this summers olympic games in atlanta
n. p. r.'s kathy lohr is in atlanta
and kathy first can you tell us what you know about these two men who were arrested today in central georgia
they are allegedly members of a small militia group called the georgia republic militia and one is well known in georgia as a militia member robert starr
he owns an electric company in macon georgia and the groups who watch the militia movement this afternoon say there are a number of such small militia groups in the state of about five to fifteen members perhaps that have made video training tapes held weapons training seminars explosives seminars that kind of activity
the other man is william james mckrainey junior
he is a plumber in macon and little is really known about him
now what do the authorities say about how they caught these men and the pipe bombs
well according to an affidavit filed in federal court this afternoon by an agent of the bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms they had a confidential informant in on several meetings who said that earlier this month at one meeting one of the men william mckrainey talked about blowing up a bomb on his property and also kind of bragged that he had enough chemicals to make forty bombs
the informant also said that at a meeting on april eighteenth in a parking lot in macon georgia starr the other man told the group that they needed to start making pipe bombs on april twentieth while they were still on mckrainey's property
the informant also went on to say that they wanted to make as many pipe bombs as they could given the materials that they had collected and start distributing them among the members of their small group
why
what were they going to do
or what the informant say they were intending to do with so many bombs
i think it's all speculation at this point but when the militia groups many of them believe that at some point in the future there will be a big battle with the government and so according to the federal government officials today they say they were going to use them for when the big war comes
so some of the militia groups across the country are stock piling weapons and explosives and they've said they're going to use these to defend themselves when the war with the government comes
that may be what this group was preparing for in georgia although early reports today said that the group planned to use some of the bombs at the olympic sites going to be held the games this summer obviously starting in july but government officials since then have categorically denied that said there's no evidence to the fact that they were planning to use these pipe bombs at the olympics
well kathy thank you very much
n. p. r.'s kathy lohr in atlanta
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
more than two weeks of fighting in south lebanon could soon come to an end
today secretary of state warren christopher announced that israel syria and lebanon have agreed to a u. s. brokered cease fire
it's scheduled to take effect tonight at nine o'clock eastern daylight time
the agreement would end sixteen days of israeli attacks against hezbollah guerrillas in southern lebanon and hezbollah's rocket attacks into northern israel
u. s. officials caution they have produced only a cease fire not a lasting peace agreement
we have several perspectives on today's developments beginning with n. p. r.'s eric wiener in jerusalem
when president clinton dispatched secretary of state warren christopher to the middle east a week ago a cease fire was expected in just a day or two
but the negotiations proved much more difficult
finally this evening in jerusalem a clearly tired but satisfied warren christopher announced that the fighting in south lebanon would soon end
i am very pleased to announce that we've reached an agreement on a new set of understandings to end the current crisis
carrying out of these understandings will end the katyusha attacks and protect citizens civilians in both israel and lebanon allowing them finally to return to their homes to leave the air raid shelters
secretary christopher shuttled between jerusalem and damascus trying to bridge the gap between the israelis and syrian president hafez al assad
his support was crucial in reaching today's cease fire agreement
israeli prime minister shimon peres praised secretary christopher for his persistence in negotiating the agreement
from an almost impossible situation with three parties far away from each other the secretary was able to bring for the first time in my judgment an agreement between syria an understanding i should use this word between syria and us and the lebanese
today's cease fire goes beyond a similar one reached in nineteen ninety three after israel's last offensive into lebanon
israel and hezbollah now agree not to target civilian areas on either side of the border
and hezbollah agrees not to launch attacks against israel from civilian areas
the cease fire if it holds will bring an end to a bloody sixteen days in the middle east
according to lebanese officials more than one hundred fifty people were killed in the fighting most of them lebanese civilians
hezbollah fired more than one thousand katyusha rockets into northern israel injuring several dozen people
today's cease fire explicitly prohibits attacks against civilians on either side of the border
but it is only a limited cease fire
syria is under no obligation to stop arming and funding hezbollah
israel is under no obligation to withdraw from southern lebanon
hezbollah guerrillas and israeli troops are in fact still free to attack each other within israel's self declared security zone
and israel retains the right to retaliate should hezbollah violate any part of the agreement
if we are fired upon said prime minister peres we will return fire
the cease fire agreement does create a monitoring group which would include officials from the u. s. france syria lebanon and israel
but a senior u. s. official acknowledged that the monitoring group will do only that monitor
it will have no authority to punish anyone who violates the cease fire agreement
all sides emphasized that they have produced only a limited cease fire not a peace treaty
secretary of state warren christopher
i want to make it clear that these understandings are not a substitute for a complete and permanent solution
they are not a substitute for a peace agreement between israel and lebanon
that is why the united states believes that the resolution of this crisis should be the basis for returning to negotiations seeking a comprehensive peace
but that seems to be a long way off
a senior u. s. official who participated in the past week of shuttle diplomacy says he is now no more optimistic that a peace treaty between israel and syria can be reached this year
the only thing everyone agrees on he says is a need for a period of calm
this is eric weiner in jerusalem
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
tomorrow nearly six hundred million people will go to the polls in india to elect a new lower house of parliament
this has been described as the world's largest organized human activity
the elections could determine india's next prime minister who will have to lead a nation of almost one billion people and a multitude of religions castes classes and conflicts
indians say they regard their constitutional right to vote as both a privilege and responsibility
but because all of the country's major parties are embroiled in a massive corruption scandal many voters say they are fed up with politics
they're questioning whether the elections are an exercise in democracy or hypocrisy
from new delhi n. p. r.'s chitra ragavan reports
in the heart of new dehli on the banks of the yamuna river lies an oasis from the endless noise and relentless pace of india's capital city
it's the raj kat a memorial marking where mahatma ghandi was cremated
it's been almost fifty years since india achieved its independence from british rule thanks to the sacrifices of leaders such as ghandi and jawaharlal nehru india's first prime minister
they were determined to free their country not only from the shackles of imperialism but also castism and religious and political opportunism
there are many who say that on the eve of electing its eleventh lockshava the lower house of parliament india is adrift rudderless a nation without true leaders
nene balkevala is a senior advocate for the indian supreme court and a distinguished political commentator
we are running a third class democracy under a first class constitution
our constitution was conceived by very great men
i cannot recognize the same country which gave itself the constitution in the year nineteen fifty because the whole quality is so different
we told that we would have first class people in charge of the country
instead we've got absolutely third rate men
balkevala is but one of thousands who can be heard these days on the streets on their morning walks and talking in the parks and in their stores offices and homes wondering what's to become of their democracy
a massive corruption scandal has tainted political leaders from the ruling congress party to the main opposition party the nationalist vjp or party agenta party and it has thrown the elections into a tailspin and put many voters in a deeply pessimistic frame of mind about their political leaders and the future of their country and this pessimism has touched every class of people
for india's poor whose only postal address is the street on which they sleep they feel democracy has failed to provide the most basic necessities
one example is pondu a huge industrial area and home to one of the largest slums in bombay
real estate in the city is so pricey most poor people cannot afford anything more
so they've set up this shantytown on a hill near an enormous gray pipeline embedded in the ground
the city's main water supply gushes through it with great force
the slum dwellers have no legal access to the water but they've managed to drill small holes into the pipeline to tap the water illegally making it look like one long sprinkler
children crawl on top of the pipeline as women squat nearby with garbage all around washing their dishes in the spray
today a local official with ties to the national vjp is visiting the area
her name is sila bijado but she's known in these parts as thay or mother a crowd quickly gathers
thay says to the crowd tells these people what affection and respect you have for the vjp but that completely sets off a group of mostly women who clearly have many grievances
no one has done any work
we have no water no toilets no nothing
nothing gets done
no faucets no roads
they haven't even fixed our gutters so far
our children goes to a school that doesn't even have a toilet
thay says it's the congress party that's to blame for these problems not the vjp
the congress was in power for decades in this state the vjp only for the past year
the local vjp secretary harish tendrajipati was even less conciliatory and arrogantly confident
madam i'm telling in front of them they will vote for us and we won't have to pay them a penny for their vote
ninety nine percent of them will vote for us despite everything
a child may do wrong and his mother beats him but then she also loves him
that's what will happen on election day
mahatma ghandi once said that under his notion of democracy the weakest should have the same opportunities as the strongest
india's poor say democracy for them has all too often been about promises made then broken
for india's working class day to day life is not so unrelentingly harsh but they're just as disgusted with the politicians for different reasons
in the small southwestern town of minma hirash katri makes a decent living crafting charrungs low square wooden tables on which hindus place the sacred items used in religious ceremonies
katri is standing outside his small shop bent over double in his white undershirt and trousers hammering a bright pink tin square which will cover the wooden tabletop
the tin is carved with hindu religious symbols
katri says one candidate had come into town this morning but adds that he didn't bother to go listen
all politicians are thieves all of them
big thieves
it's in the papers every day
bijan scandal p. j. p. names are involved congress names are involved
who should we give our vote to
what can we do
i will vote because it's my right but i expect nothing
katri says one thing he does know he won't by party this time but for an individual because he believes the parties themselves have been corrupted beyond repair
that's the central theme you hear in india today even in the ritziest neighborhoods
it's five thirty a. m. on marine drive in south bombay
the sidewalk that hugs the soft curves of the arabian sea is already packed with upper and middle class bombayites jogging walking chatting
they include judges businessmen advertising executives and housewives wearing traditional saris and aerobic sneakers
the newly prosperous middle class and the wealthy live a pretty good life but they also believe most elected leaders have only their selfish interests at heart and not the people's
sirlakan singh is a retired government officer who hasn't decided whether or not to vote
you see political parties are all corrupt
to old people because they are looting the country
they are looting the poor people
the poor people are not getting anything but bread and butter
another man jogging past financial analyst jethan doshi is almost as negative but he says he's still going to vote
the congress party has become extremely corrupt
we can't say that the vjp won't do the same thing but maybe they won't be as bad
but everybody you go to in the world there is unrest
at least in the india people have humility the people are good
so i still feel go east go west india is the best
go east go west still india is the best
but by and large that's sentiment you don't hear much in india today even though most indians take great pride in their nation
their deep anger comes from their conviction that their politicians have no respect for them
until recently political campaigns were so loud and prolonged that many voters say they felt violated
rogan natar is a special correspondent for the hindustan times
there used to be immense carnivals out here
used to have noises used to have people yelling at the top of their lungs and they would make the neighborhood go berserk on a sunday afternoon or a monday morning
they wouldn't bother whether you were ill or you or you're alive or in the last gasps of your you know your life
nothing of that sort
they would just keep on playing that song
that has stopped
the reason it has stopped is because one man has responded to the voter's rage making him a national hero
t. n. sayshen is in charge of india's elections
a harvard educated scholar who left near retirement to head the election commission when it was a quiet backwater agency sayshen has instituted major reforms that have transformed political campaigning today
we resemble an indian marriage hall the day after the marriage
most i don't know about a western marriage but in an indian marriage the day after the marriage the place looks a shambles
so that's how the whole country looks like and somebody wants to take up a mop and a broom and clean up the place
one of sayshen's most popular reforms have been curbs on candidates' use of microphones and bullhorns making this one of the quietest elections in history
well quiet by indian standards
in one of india's most congested wholesale markets congress party candidate mudli dayra is campaigning for votes from one of his many constituents the matari workers
they're the people who make a grueling living transporting enormous loads of goods on their backs and heads in the blazing heat
the street is so packed with laborers traders and traffic that someone or something is literally taking up every inch of space
dayra is riding on a jeep with the spotlight shining on him looking a little tired
this may be noisy but it's considerably quieter than it used to be and the people love it
as one man put it now the politicians must come to us to ask for our vote but at least one place in india is hoping that the national politicians will simply stay away from them and it's not because they're cynical or angry
deep along the arabian seacoast is maharashtra is a fishing village called aranala where the people have discovered that the best way to survive in india's current political climate is to exist within the democracy but to distance themselves from the central government
aranala is a large village of thatched huts that face a beach lined with scores of criss crossing wooden slats
through them you can see fishing boats bobbing on the waves
thousands of silver fish pomfrel dry on the slats under the hot sun
the fishermen say they often have to travel eight hours to catch good fish but still they make a good living
we are educated men
are children are educated but they still go out in the boats to fish because they can't find jobs
we have dug our own wells so we get plenty of water
none of the national candidates have come and talked with us but that's o. k.
our village leaders help us the most
we have learned to be self sufficient but we will still vote because it's our right and because we believe voting brings some good things
the fishermen say they're generally happy with their lot but like most indians they believe they deserve better
but whether indians rail against their politicians or have become resigned to the status quo hundreds of millions of them will go to the polls starting tomorrow
if not in support of their elected officials then against them and also for the preservation of their democracy
i'm chitra ragavan in new delhi
i'm jennifer griffin in beirut
just prior to the announcement of the truce the skies over south lebanon fell quiet as the nation anticipated their prime minister's statement in the capital
the cease fire is expected to take effect in a few hours but many analysts say they are still unsure whether it will hold
already there are reports of more israeli air strikes responding to hezbollah rockets in the south
news of the truce was welcomed in lebanon
lebanese prime minister rafik hariri held a press conference at the same time as the one in jerusalem
the announcement in beirut had a bittersweet tenor as prime minister hariri recalled the number of civilians who died in what he termed the unnecessary destruction of lebanon's infrastructure
we have said that the problem of the hezbollah cannot be solved by force and it did not get solved by force
hezbollah remains intact today but over two hundred civilians killed most of them are children and women
critics say the agreement is little more than the return to the uncomfortable status quo which existed prior to operation grapes of wrath
israel's stated goal was to destroy hezbollah and its ability to fire rockets into israel
but hezbollah says it has lost only six of its fighters
at a press conference today hariri said hezbollah is allowed to continue its resistance against israeli soldiers occupying the security zone
yes they have the right to fight yes
they have the right to fight and that is occupied territory
they have no right to use the villagers who attack from the villages the occupied territory
and they don't have the right to launch any arms and any rockets toward israeli territory
that's all
so this agreement is written and therefore enforceable
analysts say the understanding does not address the crux of the problem the israeli occupation of south lebanon
but it could be a basis for a greater peace agreement
syrian's president hafez al assad underscored this today
much of the diplomatic wrangling focused on assad who is considered the real power in lebanon
a spokesman for him said the agreement is not a substitute for a peace treaty
he said all the agreement did was end israeli aggression against lebanon
a few hours before the cease fire announcement hezbollah's press spokesman abraham masouwi said the final solution lies in israel leaving the security zone it has declared in south lebanon
we don't fight because we like to fight we fight because simply our land is occupied our soil is occupied by the israelis
let them withdraw and everything would be clear then
we are a result of the they cause
you have cause and effect we are the effect
we came after the israeli occupation in nineteen eighty two
we were not there before
while both sides are blaming each other for causing the conflict lebanon must still deal with the four hundred thousand displaced villagers who are eager to return home
many of these refugees no longer have a home because they have been destroyed by israeli bombs
dozens of villages have been leveled
much of lebanon is without electricity
and still there are many bodies to be buried
for national public radio i'm jennifer griffin in beirut
joining us on the telephone is richard haass who is director of national security programs and a senior fellow at the council on foreign relations
richard haass the understandings that we just heard about were brought about u. s. diplomacy the french were also involved in the mediation mission
but secretary of state christopher appears to be the chief architect here
do you think it was an effective use of american diplomacy
it's sort of a mixed answer
on one hand it did what it had to do where it's produced understandings but even if it will not end the fighting at every level it will at least narrow it considerably so that civilians are not targeted
on the other hand it was an awful lot of diplomacy for quite little
and what it showed if you will how difficult it is to be an effective outside force for peace making in the middle east
well is diplomacy like gasoline
i mean if you run too far on it does your tank go down
is there anything wrong with making dozens of missions back and forth for a small agreement
well there's a couple of things potentially wrong for it
one is that while you're doing that there's an opportunity cost
there's all the things you're not doing
and people have estimated that the secretary of state has taken literally more than twenty trips to syria
well that takes time it takes effort and that is time taken away from other strategic priorities whether they are china or japan russia what have you
also there is something that is slightly unseemly about an american secretary of state being forced to cool his heels so to speak in an ante room in damascus and being forced to do so much for again what is relatively modest
and i think it shows in some ways what local forces can do and the limits of any outside person no matter how good his intentions
these understandings involve the united states france syria lebanon and israel in some kind of monitoring group
it's going to see if there are violations or accept appeals i guess to violations of these understandings
does that mark any sort of qualitative change in the u. s. role in the middle east
i don't think so
what i think it does is it makes slightly more formal the role of syria and it's just a reminder that all these countries really do have some influence
it's a way to keep the french somewhat satisfied
it's one of the small differences between this understanding and the unwritten or oral understandings of three years ago but i don't think in and of itself it's all that significant
people have made much though over the fact that these are not oral understandings that they are written
for sure and that's probably the biggest single difference that it is more explicit it is written and that more than anything else is a great source of relief to shimon peres the israeli prime minister who a month away from an election can now go to his electorate and say we've paid a price for the last two weeks but now we have something important to show for it
we have some written understandings that we did not have before
and yet as we have just heard from lebanon this agreement has been received in beirut at least as simply a return to the status quo ante
i think that's a little bit too negative
it does some things that the status quo ante didn't have in being more explicit about for example the inability now of hezbollah to hide behind civilian targets if it's to go to fire at israel
but i think probably the most important thing to say about it is that it is a slightly better situation but it in no way offers a guarantee that we will not see new fighting
indeed it's probably better not to use the word cease fire probably better to stick with the word understanding because nothing in this precludes either party from to use the diplomatic phrase exercising the right of self defense
and that carries an awfully large loophole that either side can use if it so chooses
that means that if next week at any point a hezbollah group were to fire on an israeli military vehicle in southern lebanon and if the israelis were to fire back on the hezbollah people that would all be countenanced by these understandings
it could be and each would clearly interpret it as being totally within the understandings and then they would probably each appeal to the monitoring group saying the other side violated it and i don't think an awful lot would change
richard haass thank you very much for talking with us
thank you
richard haass is senior fellow at the council of foreign relations
he spoke to us from the council in washington
ten years ago today the world's worst nuclear accident took place when reactor number four at the chernobyl nuclear power plant exploded
thirty one plant workers were killed immediately and radioactive fallout was spread across the region
the long term effects of the disaster are still unknown yet today in russia ukraine and in lithuania more than a dozen reactors just like the one at chernobyl continue to operate
some specialists in nuclear safety say these reactors are too dangerous and ought to be shut down
they probably won't be
at the moment there's no money to replace them
n. p. r.'s dan charles reports
nuclear reactors of the type found at chernobyl are old and western nuclear safety experts say they're badly designed
they can be prone to sudden power surges and if an accident does happen they don't have a reliable emergency cooling system and they don't have a massive concrete dome surrounding the reactor to contain the radiation
yet fifteen reactors very similar to the one that blew up at chernobyl continue to operate
two reactors remain at chernobyl two in lithuania and eleven in russia
kristin suako is an official responsible for international nuclear safety programs at the u. s. department of energy
originally the goal and the call was for shutdown as quickly as possible
ten years later that goal or call is rarely heard
suako says western officials have learned a few things in the meantime
we've learned in part that there are more problems and impediments to actual shutdown than we might have thought at the beginning
chernobyl itself is an example of those problems and impediments
the two operating reactors there stand right beside the enormous concrete tomb that covers the ruins of unit number four the one that exploded ten years ago
lauren dodd a nuclear engineer from the department of energy's pacific northwest laboratory in richland washington has visited chernobyl frequently in recent years
we've created a situation there which is probably the worst possible situation that one can imagine
everybody from western governments to the ukrainian parliament called for those plants to be shut down and it had a crippling effect morale suffered many experienced operators left and some safety upgrades that were installed at other plants after the accident never happened at chernobyl
the problem was ukraine couldn't shut them down
forty percent of ukraine's electrical power comes from nuclear plants seven percent from chernobyl
on top of that dodd says there's the problem of what to do with the people who work there and their families
they fill a good sized town
and this town is completely reliant upon operation of the nuclear power plant for its survival and the nuclear power plant manager it's his responsibility to care for the thirty thousand inhabitants of this town
and in fact i would suggest that his first priority today is in fact addressing that social issue as opposed to addressing the safety issues at chernobyl
the only thing that's going to shut chernobyl down in fact is western aid
ukraine's government has now agreed it will close down operations at chernobyl by the year two thousand if western countries put up almost three billion dollars in loans and grants for new power plants and distribution networks
in russia though where most of the reactors are there's no such effort underway
russian officials say their plants are safe as nuclear plants anywhere
uli veransov is russia's ambassador to the united states
shutting them down will be something like stopping the railroads because they are dangerous to some people who are crossing the rail or something like that
it is not realistic i think
so the u. s. and its european allies now are trying simply to make those plants operate more safely not just the fifteen chernobyl type reactors in fact but all fifty nine soviet designed nuclear reactors still operating in the former soviet union and in eastern europe
for several years now the department of energy and similar agencies in western europe have been visiting those plants installing new equipment and carrying out training seminars
the department of energy's kristin suako
what we are really trying to do with our programs is to leverage the limited resources that we have and they are limited because really no amount of money will ever be available to go in and fix all of the problems or shut all of the power plants down
what we are trying to do is leverage the resources such that you build an infrastructure and you build a safety culture
building an infrastructure involves such things as coating flammable electrical cables with materials that don't burn or providing protective suits that allow workers to inspect areas of a plant that are hot or are filled with radiation
the d. o. e. has provided equipment for inspecting pipes to see if there are hidden cracks growing inside the metal
at one training center american contractors are constructing a full scale model of a control room where operators can practice responding to various kinds of emergencies
building a safety culture suako explains simply means that everybody from the lowest paid maintenance worker to the plant manager makes safe operations a priority
lauren dodd from the d. o. e.'s pacific northwest laboratory says that wasn't always the case at those plants
whereas at one time you know production of electricity was the paramount concern and safety you know was at best a distant second you know today i would say that all of the people involved in the operation of these reactors in fact are very much concerned about the safety of them and do their best to operate these things safely
and in fact if we were to leave today that's something we've left behind
so i think that's a very positive thing
but in other ways dodd says the situation is worse today than ten years ago
last year the chernobyl plant only collected payment for three percent of the electricity it generated
economic turmoil means there's no money to pay operators or buy spare parts
dodd saw the effects firsthand on a recent visit to chernobyl
there the situation in fact is almost bordering on the desperate in that plants are not getting money from electricity sales
unit three at chernobyl which is scheduled for an annual maintenance outage is continuing to operate and will operate at least until june because the plant doesn't have the resources today to buy the replacement parts or to hire the contract labor to do the work that's required for the maintenance outage
for thomas cochran of the natural resources defense council an environmental group the economic chaos is a powerful argument that these plants can't be operated safely they have to be closed
or take the situation in lithuania he says
here's a country where two old chernobyl type nuclear reactors supply almost ninety percent of the country's electricity
cut off from russia and strapped for funds there's no way this small country can maintain those reactors he says
the western attempts to help supplying some new equipment and running safety seminars aren't going to solve those problems cochran says
they only amount to a feeble band aid
you can argue that this is better than nothing but it in our view first you ought to put together a list of the most dangerous reactors rank them in terms of their hazard and then put together a funding package that can really attack this problem in a serious way
really attacking the problem cochran says means conserving electricity where it's being wasted building new power plants where they're needed and shutting down a lot of the old nuclear plants
it'll cost a good ten billion dollars he says
u. s. government officials say they can't afford to spend that kind of money
cochran says they can't afford not to
this is dan charles reporting
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
all this week we've been considering different perspectives on the issue of english only whether english should be made the official language of the united states
tonight we hear from somebody who's been watching this debate from the other side of the border
here is commentator ruben martinez who recently moved to mexico city
seen from mexico the debate over whether english should be the official language of the united states is an absurd one
who says mexicans don't want to speak english
more and more of the continent is bilingual
i live and work now in mexico city where rock n. roll is the national anthem of the teen and twenty something crowd
spanish here is increasingly spiced with anglicisms
on good friday i encountered a barrio evangelist who kept pointing at his head and calling it his computer as he preached fuego and brimstone
as far as i know there's no translation for the word internet which i see in spanish language newspapers and magazines every day
you want to park your car here you parkar
your car stalled you pushar
you're going to work on your car put on some overalls
and then you can relax tonight by drinking a cerveza as you watch jose canseco bat some home runas' on t. v.
is the mexican congress debating a spanish only bill
i think they've got bigger pescados to fry quite honestly issues like the bi national wound of illegal immigration the iniquitous and destabilizing effects of the free trade agreement the plunge of the peso apparitions of the virgin of guadelupe
but if that's what the gringos want well all right
we'll have to rename that pollo loco chain crazy chicken wasabe will just have to be plain old horseradish
falafel will be mm
the language police are going to have a tough time going over america's menus
what the language police really want to do is patrol the way individuals conduct their public and private business
a. t. and t. is going to get smacked with a fine for taking out those full page spanish language ads in the l. a. times because they are after all contributing to the sinister spanish only movement
i know what the english only types say look at all those storefront signs in spanish in mandarin in farci it's gettin' so that you feel like a foreigner in your own country the more benign ones say it with an almost liberal lilt we just won't be able to dialogue with one another anymore
but let's get serious
when did you ever hear of the mexicans or the chinese or the iranians plotting to submit english speakers to a slow but sure deconstruction of their national psyche through the destruction of their language
the evidence is the opposite
we learn english abroad and we learn it in america
english adult night classes offered in public high schools draw over capacity crowds
english is the ticket to a better job
everyone knows that
we don't have any problem with speaking another language
we have no problem with being bilingual
are the supporters of english only actually proud of being monolingual
what is it americans let's be specific english only americans fear about other languages
are they just scared that they're not top gun in global linguistics like they think of themselves in everything else
whether or not english only passes chinese will still be the number one language on earth
is it language envy
what's happening on our continent is what has always happened throughout history when distinct cultures bump into each other in the night
oswald spengler wrote that migrant peoples ultimately adapt to their new landscape and not always the other way around
the spanish or the conquistadors became indian ized
american english too has become indian ized and spanish ized italian ized african ized hebrew ized
americans share a continent not only with the ghosts of history but with the sons and daughters of it
some speak spanish
some speak lakota
some speak chinese
language is a part of history and so english will evolve as will spanish and every other language spoken on earth
we might all end up like the enigmatic character eddie olmos played in ridley scott's apocalyptic classic on l. a. who spoke a patois of english spanish german and japanese
in truth i hope we do
i want to be a part of the world not apart from it
i for one am proud to have grown up in a household where my father spoke spanish and english without accent and where my mother spoke mostly spanish for a few years after arriving from her native el salvador slowly but surely trying on the harsh consonants of her american ambition
she's a licensed marriage and family counselor today
she speaks english with a slight accent something that endears her to me
it is a reminder of how far she's come and how much she bequeathed her children in english y. en espanol
ruben martinez in mexico city is an editor with the pacific news service
the sign in aaron lichtman's window may stay there
so says a new york trial judge
mr. lichtman is a manhattan lawyer whose second story window has two signs in it
one says law office of aaron chess lichtman no problem there but the other says bad food that's his protest
directly downstairs is a chicken restaurant kenny rogers roasters and the restaurant has placed an awning and neon sign just over mr. lichtman's window and that and a foul smell that he complains of led aaron chess lichtman to put up the bad food sign a comment on the restaurant that he claims has made his law office window appear to be its upstairs dining room
the sign led the restaurant to sue him and this week lichtman won the case
the sign is really just pure opinion and it's pure speech
and it's our position that opinion is protected by both the first amendment to the constitution and article one to the new york state constitution and the judge found that to be the case
this despite the argument of the lawyer for the restaurant that they claim that since you are not a food critic the purpose for posting this sign was to cause economic injury to their client to the restaurant
that argument's really absurd
it means that if two people are walking down the street one says hey let's go to this restaurant the other one says no it's bad food
i'd rather go somebody else that the owner of the restaurant can then run out and hit them with a two million dollar lawsuit
obviously that's not the case
the issue here really is whether or not you're allowed to state your opinion that's negative about the corporation
the corporation stated its opinion that it's positive
i didn't go and sue them saying hey this food is not good
you say it's good i didn't hit them with a two million dollar lawsuit for telling the public that i believe to be false
but does that cut both ways
would it really be fair for the restaurant to put a sign up saying right underneath your lawyer sign saying ambulance chaser
well i did not put up a sign that was the equivalent to ambulance chaser
well then bad lawyer say bad lawyer then
i didn't if the sign said bad lawyer and they had some negative experience then i believe that they would have that right
but i'd like to point out one difference between myself and this restaurant
this restaurant has in fact put out its message that it has good food to millions of people and they're backed by millions of dollars and a famous celebrity to do that
kenny rogers you mean
that's correct
i did not initiate the debate as to whether or not it's good food or bad food
i just participated in it
aaron chess lichtman is a lawyer on broadway near seventy second street
his office is just over a kenny roger's roasters and just under its neon sign
this is n. p. r. national public radio
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
five years ago only a very few companies offered unmarried employees health insurance coverage for their live in partners
most businesses considered that to be too controversial
but today at least three hundred fifty firms offer a full range of medical and other benefits to domestic partners
and the number of such companies is growing rapidly up fifty percent in the past year by some estimates
n. p. r.'s david molpus reports now that many businesses are finding that their fears about escalating costs and public reaction have not materialized
at first it was just something provided by a few computer companies on the east and west coasts
but domestic partner benefits are found today at major retailers banks and communications companies from barnes and noble books to coors beer to walt disney
typically to qualify the employee must live with his or her partner in a committed non platonic relationship and be financially interdependent
some companies offer these benefits only to same sex couples
other companies include opposite sex couples who have chosen not to get married
andrew sherman vice president of the segal company a new york based benefits consulting firm says companies are beginning to adopt these benefits without any external or internal pressure
initially it would only be that companies were reacting to requests by employees or groups of employees to include domestic partners and benefit plans
the change that i've seen is that companies really from a top down rather than bottom up approach are thinking about domestic partner benefits
a lot of this comes under a heading of recruiting attracting employees retaining those employees
having domestic partner benefits sherman says is a way for companies to stand out as progressive cutting edge employers
such policies have been attacked on moral and social grounds as condoning pre marital sex promoting homosexuality and undermining the family
but sherman says companies have managed to deflect the criticism by couching domestic partner benefits in terms of fairness equity and valuing diversity
one response is that providing benefits for domestic partners is in fact promoting the family
maybe it's not promoting a traditional family
they're saying the family is changing
the way people are defining their own relationships is changing
some companies who want to be very broad and very inclusive are saying who are we as a company to say how anyone should choose to live their life
that was the thinking at xerox corporation a year ago when it extended health benefits to domestic partners
companies shouldn't be and doesn't want to be in the position of judging what is a valid relationship and what is not
wendy starr a former manager at xerox designed and launched a program at the company that subsidizes health care insurance costs for domestic partners
she says it was a way for xerox to demonstrate that it values its gay and lesbian population as much as other workers
diversity has always been at xerox of prime importance and we will be a better company and more successful and more productive if we utilize the diversity of our employees
so it actually really fits in with that approach
starr who continues to work with xerox as a private consultant says the company's domestic partner benefits policy generated only fifteen letters of complaint from customers and stockholders far less negative reaction than xerox expected but actually in line with the experience of most other companies breaking this new ground
one of the few organized protests came last fall when walt disney company started offering domestic partner benefits
what they're doing is they're putting domestic partnerships between homosexuals on a same footing with heterosexual marriage an institution that's been honored for thousands of years
that's mark merrill president of the florida family council a conservative citizens group that got fifteen state legislators to sign a letter of protest to disney
the letter says disney's domestic partner policy belittles the sanctity of marriage and endorses an unhealthy unnatural lifestyle
merrill says his group took particular aim at disney because of what the company represents
it's a real disappointment
families have flocked to walt disney world and disneyland because they knew that walt disney respected and nurtured the traditional american family and its strong moral values and disney could always be counted on to provide parents and children alike with a family friendly entertainment and environment
disney's gay friendly policy was one of the reasons that florida baptists passed a resolution at their state convention urging all southern baptists to prayerfully reconsider their continued support of disney products
another group the american family association based in mississippi is calling for an outright boycott
a spokesman says we don't hate homosexuals but it shouldn't be encouraged or normalized with policies like this
disney officials say the protests have had little impact
john dryer disney's vice president for public affairs says financially the company is having a record year but he declined to address the concerns of critics except to say this
we did this for the well being of our employees and their dependents
we felt that this was an equitable way to make sure that all of our employees and all of their immediate dependents had good health care coverage and if people want to make judgments on it that's their business
while public criticism of domestic partner benefits overall has been rather muted another unexpected result is in the area of costs
mary case of quasha lipton an employee benefits consulting firm based in new jersey says costs are lower than anticipated in two respects
the enrollment has not been that sizable
experience has been that there aren't that many domestic partner relationships where the partner needs coverage through the employee
perhaps the partner has other coverage through his or her own employment
studies show that only one to three percent of employees typically take advantage of domestic partner benefits when offered
companies have also feared that adding this new group would substantially increase the risk of aids related insurance claims but experts in the field say experience hasn't borne that out
domestic partners cost no more than spouses
benefits consultant andrew sherman predicts that as more companies become aware of the negligible costs and the mostly positive reaction to domestic partner benefits they will become ever more common
most companies that have implemented domestic partner benefits view it as a real winner
they've gotten a lot of mileage for very little dollars
perhaps but as of now these benefits are still the exception not the rule and other trends may hamper further change
in today's cost cutting business environment few companies are looking to expand benefits of any kind and many companies are considering revamping their whole way of looking at benefits
one idea as consultant mary case explains is to treat all employees the same giving no extra subsidies to employees with dependents whether they are traditional or non traditional families
as more and more companies begin to view benefits as compensation rather than as entitlements they have to start asking themselves why should a married person or a person with a domestic partner receive greater subsidy greater value out of a health care plan than a single employee
and perhaps we should have the one level of benefits for all employees
case believes that's the direction companies are headed eventually
but she say's there's a lot to be sorted out along the way as employers and society at large grapple with deep rooted conflicts over the value of different types of families
reporting from chapel hill north carolina i'm david molpus
this is n. p. r. national public radio
this is all things considered
i'm robert siegel
and i'm noah adams
on sunday president clinton will be deposed on videotape as a witness in the whitewater trial
the president will be testifying on behalf of the defendants his former partners in the whitewater real estate venture james and susan mcdougal
they believe his testimony will undermine the credibility of the main prosecution witness former arkansas judge david hale
hale has charged that then governor clinton pressured him to make an illegal loan in the nineteen seventies
the president has called hale's allegations a bunch of bull the trial is taking place in little rock arkansas
mr. clinton will be questioned by prosecution and defense lawyers at the white house
n. p. r.'s mara liasson reports on the unusual long distance court session
on sunday at one o'clock president clinton will deliver his videotaped testimony in the white house residence
dozens of people will be there the president's personal and white house counsels justice department lawyers lawyers for the defense a team of attornies from the whitewater special prosecutors office and the defendants james and susan mcdougal
judge george howard junior who does not like to fly will preside from little rock through a separate video camera that will teleconference the proceedings
later when the defense is ready to call the president as a witness the tape will be aired in open court in little rock and a transcript will be made available
but the white house is concerned about what happens to the tape itself after it's shown in court
yesterday the president shared his concerns
i was asked to testify
if i have any information that's helpful i want to be able to give it
i think that the american people and the press should have access to my testimony
but that it shouldn't be abused in any way and so that's the position that i've taken
mark fabiani the president's whitewater spokesman says that if the tape is allowed to be broadcast late night comedians could use it to ridicule the president or even worse republican operatives could use it in campaign ads
what we started to hear from the republican hit men including the creator of the willie horton attack ad is that they would take excerpts from the tape and use them in political commercials and that's clearly not what is appropriate here
the president is doing his duty as any other citizen would
he's been asked to provide information in a trial
he's going to do that
and for someone to take a short snippet out of it and distort it is really unfair
according to republican media consultants fabiani is right to worry
alex castallanos has made political ads for republican senators jesse helms phil gramm and strom thurmond
castallanos can picture the thirty second spot already
well it wouldn't be surprising to see a lot of newspaper headlines and stories about the concerns that have been raised about the president's involvement in land deals about money that and loans that were made and then see a backdrop of bill clinton with his hands raised promising to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth
castallanos says that kind of ad could do a lot of damage
if this is released i think it is going to be a body blow to the clinton campaign
i think it's going to drag the president back down into the smaller weaker political figure that he was his first two years in office
bill clinton's been very successful in the past year in inoculating himself against republican attacks
he's out there saying the era of big government is over and establishing himself as the anti crime candidate
and it's hard to be the anti crime candidate when you're testifying about one
the judge in the case has ordered the videotape held under seal until he's made a final decision on its use
he's asked lawyers to submit briefs within thirty days about how the tapes should be handled
the justice department will argue that the tape be made available possibly at the national archives for public viewing but not for duplication or re broadcast
attornies for news organizations are expected to argue that the white house chose to create a permanent visual record of the president something the white house could have avoided by having the president testify live via satellite or in little rock in person
attorney richard beckler examined former president reagan when he testified on videotape in the iran contra trial of former national security adviser john poindexter
beckler thinks it will be difficult to keep the tape out of circulation
i would suspect the judge in this case will have a difficult time if a witness agrees to be taped and if that tape is shown to a jury which it will be how can you deny the public the right to see it in any way that's possible
beckler remembers how president reagan was ridiculed for forgetting names and facts in his testimony
beckler says anyone who takes the witness stand and is questioned for six or seven hours even a trained lawyer like president clinton is never perfect
what's problematic about it is if he doesn't look good in the way he answers things if he doesn't come across as credible i mean that's a problem because you can see him visually
whereas if he was just in a courtroom doing it without you know without a video it would be a bare transcript
big difference
judge howard's decision about the videotape is expected sometime early this summer
but president clinton may face this whole issue again
the defendants in another one of the whitewater trials have said they also may call him to testify in their behalf
at the white house i'm mara liasson
attack commercials and sound bytes have long been staples of political campaigns
but commentator mickey edwards says it's time for a change
he says there should be a better and cheaper way for candidates to run for office
there's been a lot of talk about ho much it costs to run for president
and some of the people who want to open up the system have suggested that presidential candidates ought to be given free t. v. time
the problem is it's not at the presidential level that voters are uninformed
candidates for president have plenty of opportunities to tell the public what they will or will not do if they're elected
the people who need help getting heard are the candidates running for congress
newspapers and local radio and t. v. stations often don't have the time or space to fully cover congressional races
to get known candidates have to be able to pay for radio television and newspaper advertising
and for that they need a lot of money
challengers in senate races for example have to spend an average of forty five percent of their campaign funds just on advertising
even in house races more than a third of a challenger's money has to go into paid media
while some incumbents do lose and some of them lose to challengers who have less money the fact is that it's a lot harder for challengers to get known
in nineteen ninety four the year the republicans finally won control of the house the average incumbent spent more than half a million dollars to campaign
the average challenger spent only half as much
it's not hard to see why candidates devote so much of their energy to raising money
it is often who controls congress that determines what our tax rates will be or how much we'll be regulated even whether we'll have a stronger or weaker military
yet it is in the races for congress that voters are most likely to be voting in the dark
so if the goal is to allow voters to make informed choices what can we do
first of all we need more information about the candidates and the things they believe in
and that's why reformers should start looking at things like free t. v. time for congressional candidates or low cost postage for their campaign mailings
these proposals cost something either in terms of increased regulation or actual taxpayer dollars
but in a few months we will again be making critical choices at the ballot box
many of the most important choices we'll make will be in the selection of members of congress
what we need are ways to allow citizens to learn about the politicians who are asking for their votes and if that costs something well it will be well worth it
mickey edwards is a former congressman from oklahoma
he now teaches at harvard university's kennedy school of government
he comes to us by way of w. b. u. r. in boston
how much money could an old set of golf clubs just the woods that belonged to john fitzgerald kennedy be worth
or a pearl necklace not even real pearls that belonged to jacqueline kennedy onassis
the macgregor woods in a golf bag brought seven hundred seventy two thousand dollars the necklace more that twenty thousand dollars
this was the final day of an auction in new york
sotheby's has been selling off items from the camelot years and the rest of the kennedy onassis estate and the bidding has been sky high
michael marsden of northern michigan university has written about popular culture
he is not surprised by what the items are going for even if the experts are
they do seem to be surprised
but then i think they underestimated the magical pull of objects
if for example these were objects connected to abraham lincoln they probably would not be as surprised
i can't imagine though a set of golf clubs
could that be the case belonging to abraham lincoln that would bring seven hundred seventy two thousand five hundred dollars
oh i suspect that some of the objects associated with the lincoln mystique and aura not necessarily golf clubs since that wasn't brought to this country until one thousand eight hundred ninety six
but other than golf objects that were clearly associated with him a top hat a rocking chair artifacts from his home i think would fetch a goodly amount of money in again put it in relative terms
let's say an auction was held in the late nineteenth century for lincoln memorabilia
they would have fetched pretty good prices
but people are surprised and i agree that the prices are seemingly extravagant
but our mythical relation to that kennedy administration is something that is you can't really put a price on obviously
now is this simply people with a great deal of discretionary money available to spend for something like this or does it reflect a certain sentiment and certain feeling within the populous
well in my judgment it's both
i mean i think there are people who have a good deal of discretionary funds and are looking to invest some of those funds in objects that are irreplaceable and one of a kind
all that's more of a rationale than really an explanation
and i think more directly many of these buyers are emotionally connected to the kennedy's and those objects can transport them back to camelot literally in a kind of a magical fashion
and i would just guess here that many of the people who are spending this kind of money were young and coming up in the world at the time of the kennedy administration
that's a fair guess and now they're very successful and they have the discretionary funds with which to purchase a piece of that history which was so important to them
most of us try to recreate our youth in one way or another through objects
we try to stop time
we try to preserve memories so we can relive them and we can share them with others
and if we have a piece of camelot in our home we can talk about it
we can share it with our family
it shows that we are somehow special because we have this unusual connection to a very special and almost in american terms sacred period of american history
sure
how far back when does it start that that we started assigning value to things that are non essential to our lives
well that's a very interesting question
we we certainly had let's just take the middle ages as a as at least a starting point for the discussion
in the middle ages they would collect the relics of saints
i mean when did they begin collecting pieces of the true cross
i would assume it was shortly after the crucifixion that they began to look for these artifacts and be able to collect them
and my point is that in fact was during the middle ages a kind of almost a relic mania where people were trying to purchase first second or third class relics of the saints so that they would have some connection to these persons of holiness and sanctity
but but that there's a reason for that
there's a difference between the madonna and madonna
well you might argue there is in strict religious terms
but i would say in functional behavioral terms there isn't that we make that same connection
we make that same leap between the object and the individual and i would say in the secular world those objects an elvis scarf a pair of shoes that belonged to judy garland for example they take on that very special conic significance that historically relics have taken on in the church
michael marsden dean of the college of arts and sciences at northern michigan university at marquette
he has written about popular culture
it's all things considered
i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
there's a new book out from novelist himilse novas about a set of fraternal twins separated at birth and destined to be reunited
alan cheuse has our review of mangos bananas and coconuts
the twins are the beautiful dark haired silver skinned esmerelda sevedra and her handsome brother juan
their heritage begins back in cuba with the religious conversion of their father arnoldo an undernourished un educated peasant who joins a pentecostal sect and miraculously transforms himself both physically and spiritually
and at this point you realize that novas is making great good fun of these matters
the new christian convert arnoldo it seemsm can suddenly perform miracles raising the daughter of the rich mill owner from the dead falling in love with her at the same time and impregnating her with the twins who's story make up the main part of the novel
himilse novas seems capable of making miracles herself resuscitating the by now shop worn mode of magical realism and turning it to her own satirical purposes
for example at his conversion we hear weezley arnoldo's face became full and his cinder skin turned the texture of golden mangos and his hair suddenly black and thick and shiny with a rich anointing spread like a mangled grove across his strong muscular arms and legs and thighs and manly chest
moving her story along from cuba to new york and miami novas narrates the lives of the exiled and separated twins and tells how in their twenty ninth year all nature seems to conspire to bring them together in spanish harlem for a strange and deadly and at the same time to them wonderful purpose
with a recklessness that's really refreshing the writer makes ferocious fun of a number of elements quite dear to cuban life love and destiny the power of manhood fidelity and betrayal family and religion
best of all she never forgets her responsibility to tell a good engrossing story in this case a tale of nature and perversion vision and blindness that you can sit down and read in a couple of hours
the book is mangos bananas and coconuts by himilse novas
our reviewer alan cheuse teaches writing at george mason university in fairfax virginia
compact disc re issues of old pop music are flooding the marketplace these days
but to music reviewer daisann mclane one such comeback is especially welcome
what was american culture like in the early fifties
we usually think of the era as a straight conservative time of men in gray flannel suits and father knows best a wonder bread america dying to be let loose by rock and roll
but there was another side to the early fifties an america that was already hip shaking and shimmying
if you turned on your radio exactly forty one years ago this week you would have heard america swinging to a latin beat the mambo and the cha cha cha
this song cherry pink and apple blossom white hit number on the charts in april nineteen fifty five and stayed there for twenty six weeks
it was the crowning moment in the career of the original mambo king band leader and arranger thomaso peres prado whose wildest and wackiest records have been complied on this recent rhino records collection mondo mambo
who was this crazy guy in the zoot suit with the sequined gloves waving his arms wildly kicking his leg into the air jumping urging his horn players on to higher and higher energy levels with a trademark ruhhh
peres prado hailed from matanzas cuba a city that's a center of african rhythms and culture which he of course soaked up
but he also studied formal music and classical piano
when he arrived in havana in the forties he began to experiment with a new mixture of the big band sound and afro cuban beats a combination that would eventually become the mambo
peres prado's music didn't make much of a splash in havana
but he didn't get discouraged
instead he took his act on the road first to mexico and then to the southern and western united states
there in the latin dance halls of california texas and mexico city mambo mania took hold and it didn't let go
peres prado's wild surprise filled even picasso like orchestral arrangements worked dancers into a frenzy with live instruments the same way that a nineties d. j. does with sound effects and samples
you could say that the mambo king anticipated the sample by four decades
his songs rarely had lyrics or words sometimes they didn't even have titles
he's just number them beethoven mambo number five mambo number eight
but his music held layer upon layer of hidden meaning jokes playfulness
he'd take a sappy cliched ballad and turn it into a romp or fill a tune with nonsense syllables and rhymes like in this song annabacoa sung by cuba's legendary ben moret
nowadays some of peres prado's biggest fans are in the academy not on the dance floor
yale art historian robert farris thompson who teaches a course called new york mambo likes to lecture his class to the music of mambo number eight while showing slides of jackson pollack's canvasses
thompson thinks that the spirit of the mambo infused the abstract expressionist movement
literary critic gustavo peres fermat finds peres prado to be the essence of biculturalism neither purely cuban nor purely american
he calls prado's music tense intense and intrepid and says that peres prado's mambo mix bears witness to the disquieting power of bicultural synthesis
here is a grunt that speaks a thousand words
daisann mclane writes about music for rolling stone and the village voice
she reviewed mondo mambo the best of peres prado and his orchestra
this is all things considered
i'm noah adams
and i'm robert siegel
a new compact disc arrived at the office recently on which the english chamber orchestra conducted by donald fraser plays what sound like the strains of beethoven's pastoral symphony
the instrumentation and texture are there even the birds the storm
it's just the tune that's not quite right
the tune is whistle while you work from snow white and the seven dwarfs
the compact disc is a sequel to donald fraser's hi ho mozart
it's called bibbidi bobbidi bach more favorite disney tunes in the style of great classical composers
it includes a version of some day my prince will come as hector berlios might have written it chim chim cheree in the style of pachobel and so forth
the performers include the voice of ascension flutist eugenia zuckerman and guitarist scott tenet playing the siamese cat song as manual defia might have composed it
donald fraser conducts all the orchestral versions on the disc
he did all the arrangements and he made the connections between a disney tune on the one hand and a classical composer on the other
for example whistle while you work and beethoven
i was actually looking through the disney song book and there was a picture of snow white with the little birds singing and i suddenly thought hey that's fairly pastoral and then of course one remembered the alliterations in the beethoven of the cuckoo and the various other birds that appear within that kind of marvelous picture painting that beethoven did
there's something very curious about hearing these disney movie melodies fitting so snugly into the garb of a classical composer
it makes you think both well perhaps how these tunes might indeed have been the basis for bigger compositions and also that those compositions can be broken down pretty easily and understood and mimicked
yes they can
in a way i tried to approach by if i were beethoven in that sense and i had come up with this idea one wednesday morning of di di da da da da da which is not an un beethovenian idea in many ways then what would have i done with it on that particular day
tell me about the connection between aaron copeland's music and the ballad of davey crockett
well that's a personal quite personal thing
it was the first thing i was ever taught to play on the piano properly was the tune for davey crockett and i was davey crockett for at least two years of my life
you had a coonskin cap
my mother made me one
i think i've still got it somewhere or she's still got it in an attic
you know how mothers don't throw your toys away
and i've always i just fell in love with davey crockett and the disney movies when i was kid
to me that was always the american open air the american outdoors the great feeling about the space and the country
and i felt that a lot of copeland's music obviously reflected that and that love of spacious style and also in his subject matter and i kind of it just followed that crockett should go in that way
there is a moment when first listening to these selections first of all one realizes how extensive the preliminaries are in that music whether it's true copeland or your copeland there's a moment upon hearing the theme that a just big belly laugh rips out when you hear the ballad of davey crockett come out through it
there's nothing wrong with that
i think that's a nice thing
i mean one can think of variations on a nursery theme
that always make me laugh
there's humor in music and there's nothing wrong with having a belly laugh from time to time
which of these classical adaptations of disney tunes which were the toughest ones to make a connection with a classical composer
the toughest one was bach
one does that with a slight amount of trepidation
i mean he was you know he is god as it were
one had to have a kind of irreverence but then when i thought of the bach a great spirit a bit of dance and fun and a family man so who knows
he may have improvised from some current folk tunes for his kids at the time
so there's a kind of justification there
an apology and a justification
it sounds to listen to this music as if you almost have software which you find and replace a few notes and voila
it isn't exactly that i mean one did study composing you know properly and in a grown up manner
and in fact going through all these composers again have been a wonderful course in you know composition again
and i really do try and kind of distill everything that i've been able to understand from the composer in my studies
so it's a good exercise for a composer as well
i can recommend it
i may even do a book say teach yourself composing by disney and the great masters
but it must be it must be brought home to you when you create a piece in the style of beethoven or for that matter in the style of copeland or in the style of bach that boy it's a lot easier the second time around to mimic something and to work within it than to actually create that style and to
but of course
i mean all one is doing is you know not like a master forger painter it was how i learned to do composing
i mean from my very first teacher just made me sit down at the piano at thirteen or fourteen and say o. k. here's an idea
do it in the style of this do it in the style of that and when it wasn't so much in the style then we would discuss or i would be told what was and wasn't a good understanding of a composer's style
how those guys got to it of course is i mean that's the great mystery
the disc is called bibbidi bobbidi bach
donald fraser conducted the orchestral pieces and did all the arrangements
this is scott tenet playing a song from lady and the tramp as manuel defaya might have composed it
this is n. p. r.'s all things considered
three years after he left washington in defeat former vice president dan quayle has emerged as a bestselling author a businessman and a prominent republican leader
he still has seven presidential elections to go before he turns seventy three
one of those seven i will run for president he says but meanwhile quayle who in nineteen ninety two sparked a national discussion on family values by criticizing murphy brown for being a single mother is still pursuing this issue in his new book the american family
and to quayle's own surprise the family values theme once ridiculed by so many now appears to be one of the major issues in the nineteen ninety six presidential campaign
i'm pleased to have back dan quayle
welcome back sir
charlie great to be here
good to have you here
thank you
tell me what you've been doing
businessman lawyer what's going on for a former vice president
well right now i'm embarking on a thirty four city book tour around the country
right
promoting the american family discovering the values that make it strong
so that's going to take my time and attention for the next several weeks matter of fact about eight weeks
any regrets over the murphy brown incident
absolutely not
and we've made great progress
as a matter of fact the first chapter of the book is
yeah
the new consensus
right
because whether it's me or bill clinton today the issue is family family values how can we strengthen the family and no longer charlie is this a controversial subject in the public arena
what do we mean by family values though
well in this book family values emerge from five families that i interviewed
right
went to their home wait charlie rose
went into their home not no t. v. camer
at a kitchen table like this
absolutely
just like this
all right
had a recorder had my camera notebook
first hour i just left the recorder off got to know them a little bit
i talked to them on the phone went through hours of interviews transcribed it and the five families a rural family from virginia single mother family of five in indianapolis an african american family in chicago two children hispanic family in los angeles four children entrepreneurial family who's adopted two wonderful daughters in hawaii different backgrounds different ethnicity yet common themes emerge on how they deal with problems
these families all have problems
i mean this is not ozzie and harriet where he comes home at five o'clock from whatever job he had and everything's fine
i mean they're they're real families with real problems
and the themes that emerge are middle class values like respect spouses respect each other they respect the children and in return the children respect them discipline i guaranty you each one of these families if there's misbehavior on the part of the children there are consequences education you want to sit around a table like this with them the issue that they will spend the most time talking about which is not surprising is education families raising children that's what they're most interested in and that's what they spend their time curtailment of television
yeah
all right
curtailment of television each one of the families in their own way have their own v. chip
they have the way that they monitor television is rather remarkable
some of them will sit down always watch television with their children
but they always know what their children are doing and they tend to turn it off they tend to control it in a very dramatic way
faith
four out of five families are religious
the other one the family that is not religious they still speak about the ten commandments
so these va these are middle class values that emerge in the book and
but these are values that i grew up with that you grew up with that so many americans grew up with regardless of whether they were rich or poor middle class upper class and they have no it would seem to me partisan divide
and
why is there any difference
yeah
why is this a political issue
but this this is not a political issue today
right
but it was in nineteen ninety two
as a matter of fact you'll note from the book politics was not even discussed
i didn't get into their political affiliations
as a matter of fact only one family volunteered that they voted for george bush in nineteen ninety two
now i've been around and i just assumed that most of the other families either didn't vote
yeah
or perhaps pulled the lever
yeah
for bill clinton
do you know
they would have told you if they did
i think they would have told me if they voted for me
yeah
so politics was put aside
it was not this is not a political book
this is not a book about my family
it's a book about the five families i
yeah
found
i dedicated the book to them
and in the new environment in which we're operating today liberal conservative republican democrat we're speaking about families and family values
it is not in the partisan tone that was a result of my speech in nineteen ninety two which was not partisan
i gave it to the commonwealth club
i didn't talk to the lincoln day crowd in peoria illinois
commonwealth club in san francisco
commonwealth club in san francisco bipartisan audience probably mostly democrats
yeah
i presume
and what was your point back then
the point was the poverty of values
i was talking about that we are not focusing on the values like respect and discipline and personal responsibility
we were the speech was right after the l. a. riots
and i said look we have to have accountability for our behavior and our actions
we need responsibility one of the lines that i used and the themes that i used in that speech there was a big question at the time well who's responsible for the riots in l. a. i said that's fairly simple folks
the rioters are responsible for the riots in l. a. and they need to be held accountable
people need to be held responsible for for their actions there was one little line in there about a particular t. v. sitcom and the line talked about mocking the importance of fathers
and that was the message because fathers are relevant
mothers are relevant
parents are relevant
and just to say fathers aren't involved i thought was a bad message or fathers shouldn't be involved we've now had the million man march in washington
you applaud that
i applauded the spirit of the march
i applauded why they were there
i think louis farrakhan is a detestable character
he is a racist a bigot
he's totally intolerant of other people's views and i don't have anything to do with the spirit
the spirit of those people and the value they share
of those people
with their kids
look these were men that marched in washington and they talked about marriage being better husbands they talked about parenting and being better fathers they talked about how they're going to go back and work in their neighborhoods
i mean these are similar things quite frankly that i talked about in san francisco
and you're going to have another million man march called the promise keepers which is a christian organizations later on this year
it will be black white hispanic a host of different folks but all men out there marching so
then why is this going to be a political issue in nineteen ninety six
both political parties are addressing the issue
did you did you hear
okay but where is the divide then
where do you
i'll tell you i'll tell you where
bill clinton said some program you differ with him
number
i think i think the divide is this
first of all have you listened to bill clinton's speeches lately
right
his state of the union address
right
family family values
i think the difference is this that the divide if you will is some people still to this day think that the government is the answer to many of our problems including family problems
but bill clinton doesn't think that
i mean he clearly
when you
doesn't think that
number
but you listen to as a matter of fact i haven't read her book but i've read a review of her book
a lot of government programs are mentioned and healthening families
there is far more gov
you mean the first lady's book
the first lady's book it takes a village
i haven't read the book but
yeah
i've read reviews of it and they itemize some of the programs that she talks about that are necessary
each one of these families
it takes a village is about community
they the the
if it
intent of that is about community not that we've got to have government do something
if that's the intent
if it's family extended family
sure it is
faith based organizations
then you applaud it
whether it's a pastor or priest or rabbi then that's fine
but when you're talking about the government and this is one thing that these five families really eschewed with was government involvement
and i think that is really the divide to some extent
i think the divide hopefully is less today than what it's been in the past because as these families say and they are very reflective of real america facing real problems they don't think that the government does have the answers
i want to move to to politics in ninety six beyond this
but let me stay with this for one second
gay marriages
you mentioned san francisco commonwealth
i'm not for it
not at all
number
why not
i mean why don't we allow two consenting adults
look
wait
let me finish the question who come together and and who have all the values you believe in you know fidelity support of each other all those kinds of things
suppose take the hypothetical
yeah
they happen to be same sex
what's wrong with that
look
i'm opposed to gay marriages
it's not the same as a marriage between a man and
but how
a woman
does it destroy the institution of the family
well first of all they can't have
because
children
right
so
and that's i mean if everyone had had a gay marriage we wouldn't have any children in our society
it is not the same as a marriage between a man and a woman
it's just simply not the same
but what if they the same sex marriages ascribe to the same values that you
good
talked about the same values that have to do with the things that you just talked about here and the same values that those people had discipline commitment television limited television
great
across the board
great
you just don't want to say to sanction it
i i'm not sanctioning gay marriages at all
number
i think that's fine and i
is that politics for you or is that conviction
number
it's conviction
look this is you can make the the argument all you want but it's just not the same
it is not the same as having a marriage between a man and a woman
it's just not
all right
let me move to bob dole
robert dole next
robert dole
president
president robert
well
dole
how does that sound
you recognize this magazine the weekly stnadard
yeah
guy by the name of kristol publishes
yeah
that
guy by the name of kristol was your former chief of staff and it was said it was said
what's he what's he up to now
about you during the period from the the four years that that you were in office that a respect that a lot of people have for you is because bill kristol was a very smart guy and they said dan quayle has one of the best staffs in washington and kristol was one of the reasons they said that in terms of savvy and intelligence et cetera
this is what
very very
he says
capable individual
this is what he says
but not always right when it comes to politics
in the weekly standard
the weekly standard
bob dole is likely to lose the presidential race to bill clinton
he may lose badly this is your former chief of staff
the challenge for republicans and conservatives is to prevent a dole defeat from derailing the ongoing republican realignment and from blocking the emergence of a new era of conservative governments
well that's
that is a prevailing conventional wisdom that bob dole is likely to lose
oh that's conventional wisdom today but conventional wisdom six months ago was that colin powell was going to be the next president and conventional wisdom right after the nineteen ninety four elections was bill clinton is finished
so conventional wisdom has a history of being wrong wrong wrong
i haven't read the article but i'm sure that bill kristol would not have written that nor said that if he was still working for me i can tell you that
what would have happened to him
he'd have been fired
well he would i would have explained to him that bob dole has a very good opportunity to win this election and i hope that bill kristol and others will work on how we can get this party together rather than you know starting to divide amongst ourselves
if in fact the republicans buy into the argument that bob dole will lose it could become a self fulfilling prophesy
you've got to get out of this negative attitude
you've got to be positive
are we behind in the polls
yes
so what
george bush and i were behind seventeen points going into the nineteen eighty eight
well
convention and we won forty states
let me tell you what somebody said about that very argument bob that that george bush was running against one george bush was running against one of the best campaigners in american politics bill clinton and he lost all that ground
bob dole is running against one of the best campaigners in american politics the same man who has gained perceptibly in his connection with the american people and shaping his own agenda for the future
his worst days are behind him the argument goes making the job for bob dole much tougher than it was for george bush
well he's had a lot of bad days bill clinton has
there's no doubt about it
and i'm sure that a lot of his bad days are behind him
but the american people when they vote in november are going to have to ask themselves this one very fundamental ques question do we trust bill clinton to be our president for another four years and when they think long and hard about that and they look at the alternative of of less taxes and less regulation and turning the power back to the people and to the governors where it belongs i think they'll say number
we do not trust bill clinton to be president for another four years and yes we support the republican vision for two thousand
you can't tell me in a significant way in terms as you look at state by look at pennsylvania seventeen points behind now
now i realize that polls can change and day one day is a lifetime in politics
but what is he going to do it for bob dole
how does he instantly go from being a weak campaigner to a good campaigner
how does he go from someone who can shape his ideas that are attractive to the american public from someone who's been unable to articulate them so far
look bill ci clinton is a good campaigner
he'll say anything to get reelected
we know that
that's a given and he proved to be a stellar campaigner in nineteen ninety two when he beat when he beat us
what bob dole will do as he moves toward the convention because that's really the focal point moves as we move toward the convention is to develop a clear vision of what he and the republican congress will do for america in the next for the next four years
he
what makes you think he can do it now if he hasn't done it so far
he's come through a very rough primary
it was brutal out there
as a matter of fact i was sort of glad i wasn't out there
i mean that really got heavy
yeah
i mean those attack ads were really quite vicious and uncalled for
he went through a very brutal presidential republican primary
he's obviously going to be taken down a a notch or two
right now he's doing what he was elected to do and that's to be majority leader in the senate
he's got to fulfill that responsibility for the time being
but when we get to the convention we will have a clear cut agenda
if we don't then we are in trouble
if we don't have that agenda and if i can't come on the charlie rose show and find out or and you say hey i know what your agenda is now
it's one two three four then we are going to be in trouble
but wha
so if you can't tell me what the agenda is by the time
i
you come out of san diego
oh it
it's all over
well then we're
yeah
in deep trouble but we
it's
will have the agenda
really leading up to the fact that bob dole has got to deliver the same kind of speech that george bush delivered at the convention in nineteen eighty eight
i don't want to set the bar quite that high
it's that high though isn't it
it's high but i'm not sure that he has to to give the speech of the of his lifetime but perhaps that's the case
i'm not going to set the bar there
you all probably will and bob dole has met every challenge in his life
he's trying to get peggy noonan to write it for him according to one of the news magazines over the weekend
look my my advice i'm going to be with bob dole later on this week
look forget about peggy noonan
she's a great writer
forget about all that stuff
it's bob dole's agenda and he's got to sit down and write this speech
that's right
now i've been there before
you can rely on speech writers and you can re have a smart staff around you but when the final vote's taken and when the final dice are rolled it's you and nobody else
but you're not worried that with bob dole in this election the way things look now it could take the conservative revolution that happened in ni that reached its apex in nineteen ninety four down the tubes
well charlie obviously
and you may even lose the house
if we get our clock cleaned in in nineteen ninety six obviously we have a chance of losing the house and the senate could be much closer and up for grabs
but i don't think that's going to happen
i if that happens then obviously
yeah
we may have some problems
but i'll tell you what
this republican congress notwithstanding the presidential race i think that there's more to it than meets the eye
this was a real political event that occurred in nineteen ninety four
for the first time in forty years the republicans got control
now i have to admit looking back getting control i'd say that we made a few a few quite a few tactical mistakes along the way
we had been in the opposition
all of a sudden you're now in governance
it's quite a shift of responsibility
yeah
so we made some tactical mistakes
but the american people were voting for a philosophy and an ideology and that was basically an ideology of empowering people cutting taxes shifting the government responsibility back to the local units of government
that's what ninety four was all about
it rejected a government run health care system
it said we want people power not government power that's still alive today
bill clinton in a new book by david broder is acknowledging that it was a mistake the way they handled that
mistake in
in the way they tried to sell the
health care
yeah
well it was a mistake because the american people do not trust the government to run the health care system but what it shows is giving bill clinton the room to make these decisions
yeah
he is going to opt for government
gets right back to the family values debate
that's sort of the divide between the republicans and democrats and that is the reliance on government
you think that's the divide
i if you want to if you want to look at the divide
i'm more interested in talking
yeah
about a consensus
do you think
you're the one that brought up the divide and i don't talk
all right
okay
about the divide in the in the
how about a couple of things before i go
one
book
the republican the republicans in the house and their proposal for a tax cut
do you support that
absolutely
okay
right to life where are you on right to life and what do you urge this convention to do
that's going to be a very contentious issue
no kidding
no no no yeah
you're shocked
i mean you didn't expect me to say that huh
what did you expect me to say
we'll work it out
we'll continue to be
work it out
yeah
henry hyde should be the chairman you think
henry hyde will be the chairman
henry hyde will work it out
we'll still be the pro life party
and who should be the vice presidential nominee
whoever bob dole wants
if he wants colin powell colin suit up
get ready to go
okay
but colin but colin says
i know
he's not going to suit up
i know
what do you think
look i know what colin is saying but i also know people don't turn this job down
they say that they do
now bob dole may decide that he doesn't want colin powell
yeah
for whatever reason and he may want a governor which makes a lot of sense if he's going to have the tenth amendment
yeah
that he carries around and he should be talking about giving the power back to the governors
and by the way my running mate is a governor
he's the one that's doing it in whatever state that he or she comes from
ohio or
number
somewhere in the midwest where i'm from that
right
all right
the book is the american family discovering the values that make us strong
two things you've been working on your golf
i played for the first time with my home course in indianapolis
oh come on
sunday
come on
that's the first time in
how much is how much
in indianapolis
has your handicap gone down since you left
it has gone down
it has
how much is it now
it's four
a four
it has gone down
i was pro
while you were vice president what was it
seven or eight
se it was about
so you reduced it four
how's your spelling
better
you know what
there's this wonderful thing called spell check
yeah
that does it doesn't it
believe me
all right
the american family discovering the values that make us strong
dan quayle talks about one of the issues that he was on the forefront of as he was vice president for george bush and for the country from nineteen eighty eight to nineteen ninety two
thank you sir
pleasure
we'll be right back
stay with us
we have been talking this week about the multimedia future
ray smith from bell atlantic was here
larry ellison from oracle was here
this evening we talk about the cable future and the wireless future
brian roberts is president of comcast
it is the third largest cable operator in the united states
they're involved in a lot of other businesses
brian roberts is also chairman of the national cable television association which will be having its convention in los angeles
i'm pleased to have him here this evening to talk about the future of multimedia as he sees it
welcome
thank you
great to have you here
national cable television association is that
that's perfect
basically it
everybody is now talking about convergence
everybody is talking about the world that we look forward to and all these different people who somehow want to come into our homes offering all kinds of services
give me the landscape as you see it as we approach the year two thousand
well first of all i think the consumer's going to have a lot more choice whether it's telephone television or computers
but what really has me most excited is the possibility of changing one what a television signal can do whether it's interactive whether we have more signals whether we have a digital picture and then expanding that to your home computer
we have something called a cable modem and it goes at a rate of ten million bits a second
compare that to a say fastest phone modem which is twenty eight thousand
that's i. s. d. n.
i. s. d. n. is sixty four thousand
yeah
so if you take your standard modem it's one thousand times faster five hundred times faster
yeah
and what that means is is not something that's easily explained because you just have to push the button and suddenly you get pictures
you get video clips
you get sound clips
you can interact
you can do conference calling
it's a new medium
it's like a car that can go five hundred miles an hour not fifty miles an hour
it's called an airplane
it's a whole new mode of transportation
when will a cable modem be available for most people in america
well that's what's exciting about the convention
we're going to find out some of the answers to that question
but it's great to have a product that people say when can i get it reminds me of the first time i saw a cellular phone
if it's the right price just give it to me because it's gets me away from a wire
the phone moves around
i think the answer is the next couple years
i think at the convention we're going to hear a number of manufacturers like hewlett packard and motorola and general instrument talk about this year hundreds of thousands of these modems being available and then rolling off the assembly line into next year
for a long time recent time there's been this great discussion about the race to be the person that goes into the american home between cable and the telephone company
the telephone companies the baby bells had some advantages you guys had some advantages
where is that now and how do you see that race playing itself out
well i think you see a merger of bell atlantic and nynex
they're not talking about more video
they're talking about long distance
they're talking about laying off people and saving costs
they're talking about you know taking that network and making it national or in their case up and down the east coast
i think their video strategy has been very sporadic
it's gone from fiber optic to the home which never made any economic sense to buying cable companies like when bell atlantic wanted to buy t. c. i. to now what their strategy appears to be settled at for the at least the medium term is wireless cable which is really conceding the technological high ground to the cable industry with our broad band wire into your home
now the question is can we do something with that high ground
can we do it economically
can we do it quick enough
can we earn the reputation and loyalty of the consumer that they want to buy some of these services from their cable company
so we have our challenges
but the when you play with some of the technology and we hear price points of two and three hundred dollars for the modem we get extremely optimistic about the take rate and the enthusiasm when we've had fifty customers for a year using it in our philadelphia system and the focus group research is just fantastic
okay
but are do you believe and have you put your money on the line in this conviction that the cable modem will be the primary as in six years from now in ten years from now the primary entry point for people who want access to the internet rather than a network computer an n. c. that that ellison believes in from oracle or a p. c. that perhaps gates from microsoft believes
well i tell you i don't think in our view of the world it matters whether gates or ellison is right
in a sense i hope they're both right because what we want to happen is more than just computer nerds going out on the internet
we want that to be so easy and understandable that the volume of traffic goes through the roof and they need to connect to a network
and i am convinced that the best network that they could com connect to is going to be your cable system
but you know what
if there is a phone line and a satellite line and a cable line let the consumer choose
but if the usage goes up that's when all the providers are the big winners
and in our case we think we can do it one thousand times faster
i think most consumers want speed
when you have to push the button and wait and it takes five minutes to get a picture on your p. c. or a sound file or a video clip of lion king and you push the same button and you can get it in ten seconds i think consumers pick the ten seconds
those people who who are trying to win another race rather than through the cable modem are suggesting it's not ready yet and it's not going to be there for a number of years and the telephone company especially using i. s. d. n. lines are going to have a huge opportunity
well i think that they know that there's a a big market out there and i would do the same if i were the telephone company
they can't justify putting a broad band wire
but if you go to any office in america and that's got a computer network and you ask the people that run the network for like electronic mail what's the wire that connects all the p. c.s in that office it's not the phone line it's not fiber optics
it's the same coaxial cable that now connects to your cable system and that is what makes me confident that we can make this it's now available in ninety percent of american homes
we have the cable wire
not everybody takes cable but the wire's there
why did you make such a huge investment in wireless
well if you look at the future you ca it's not it's not black and white
and in my opinion there's really three big businesses
there's telephone there's computer and there's television
and the answer for each may be different
and then there's local long distance and then there's residence and there's business
and if you want to be a full service provider one of the needs for consumers is wireless telephony
they want
but then here
to travel around
they want to connect to their p. c. when they're traveling
here's what i don't get
all right
cellular's been a fantastic business for us
it has
oh grew thirty five percent last year the number of customers
we when we bought the business we had thirty thousand customers
today we have close to three quarters of a million
and that was less than five years ago
i'm sitting at home five years from now
i'm going to be able to get through my computer a whole lot of stuff
you sure are
movies television pictures a lot of other things and access to the internet
i'm going to be able to get through my telephone company and some other kind of monitor television pictures and a lot of other things
i'm going to be able to get and maybe interactivity i'm going to be able to get from my cable from my regular television access to the internet the regular movies and news and other kinds of offering that you have now and perhaps some interactivity because you got the wide band coming in the fiber optic band coming to my neighborhood
how am i going to choose
well
and what's going to be the end result for all this fractionization of what's coming into my house
well clearly competition spurs creativity and if you think about the breakup of a. t. and t. now we have fax machines
we never had them before
we've got the cordless phones
we never had that
there was always a black rotary telephone
and so as we look to that competition and you're referring to first question is will the volume go up
now a. t. and t. ten years ago had one hundred percent of the long distance business
today they have less than sixty percent
but you know what
their profit is greater than it's ever been before because we americans use long distance at the much greater rate than the drop more than forty percent more
so their share of the market slipped but their total revenues went up
how do you know what the american consumer wants
i mean what's the evidence so far from all the test programs that they want more programming coming into their house and they want to do more things
okay
good question
and it may be that the answer is they don't and we all don't know
if they have to pay x. amount for it
i think that that's a very valid question
i i look i guess and say that today we know that when broadcast television was the only choice cable television came along and a lot of skeptics said we don't need a twenty four hour news channel
we don't need a twenty four hour sports channel
we don't need some of these services electronic retailing was oh it's not a long term phenomenon q. v. c. our company had the greatest year it's ever had by a huge margin last year
more people are participating in that type of commerce than ever before
so as we look to the future there's a very fair question is how when have we got too much information overload
but i think the growth of the internet shows people want to control what they how they get their information
they want to interact with others and they want to do it at faster and faster speeds
that's why pentium p. c.s sell well because speed helps connecting to a high speed network i believe is the safest bet of all ev and the content will be figured out by all the content companies
doesn't have to be figured out by comcast
you the viewer you the computer user you will determine whether you want it or not
but i think it's a new medium
it's great for education
it's great for traveling the world and talking to others and and sharing experiences
and maybe for some they don't want to participate
that's okay
we'll see
are you nervous about the future because you have to lay your capital on the line
i tell you the the course i think anybody as you go through a period of change you you go through one day
you're optimistic
the next day you have doubts
or somebody walks into your office and says listen this is what's happening and this is what's going to happen and you say my god i just spent five hundred million dollars or five billion dollars buying a company that you're saying is going to be obsolete
or
or or as or as bill gates said you know the smartest thing they had to do was to recognize that the internet was here to stay and was something powerful and they'd better get their act together to be competitive with netscape
i guess
it's an interesting time and it's a very the you know there's no right or wrong
but uswest one of the baby bells just like bell atlantic and nynex they turned around a month ago or two months ago and announced they were buying one of the largest cable companies in america for eleven billion dollars
so they know all about the phone system and they bet on cable
so i guess i say you know what the glass is half full here even if we don't have all the answers
if you have a technologically superior wire understand that the broad band can handle up to one thousand channels they can go real fast
phone line is the same phone system when alexander graham bell started so i like our advantage but you build one city at a time is really the answer
yeah
if it doesn't go well you shift strategy
do are you nervous about direct broadcast satellite
it's a good competitor
digital coming right into your house
and everybody says the picture is better than anything they get on any cable system they have
well it's better than any broadcast picture
exactly
and and ca
they get too because and the difference is analog versus digital
right
again at the cable convention next week i believe we're going to see the first generation of the same digital box available for cable operators this year and and it'll be rolled out i think next year throughout the country the beginning of digital television brought to you by cable
so again i think that's a benefit of competition
i i
okay
let me
know it's a it's a good service but you know what
it's only good for one outlet
if you want to have a second set you've got to spend another five hundred dollars
the cable system you typically can get five or six hookups for twenty five cents extra per hookup
so you think cable will be able to give you a picture as good as you get over direct broadcast satellite in how many years
i think in some systems this year and in some systems shortly thereafter
and then you'll get a better quantity when you put fiber optics into your neighborhood and that's the thing that's a little slower
that's maybe two to four years depending where you live one to four years depending where you live
but you can put a digital box on a cable system without doing anything to it today and have digital pictures
and that's what we have to do
and you have to put the box in the home
so some people that want digital movies that may be an extra service
if you were going to go out and buy a dish you ought to take a look at this because it's you don't need to make that up front investment
the problem with the digital satellite system is you've got to spend about between six hundred to one thousand dollars depending on how many sets you get
it could be you know people are concerned maybe it's obsolete in a couple years
a lot of people me included wanted barry diller to buy c. b. s. because we knew him we had confidence in his leadership and his innovation
the story is that you and your father did not want to support him in that effort
well
what's the story
well the story is very simple has nothing to do with barry diller reviving c. b. s.
that i think was a very interesting initiative and we would have been happy to consider investing in that initiative
we helped start q. v. c. and the form when the deal was all said and done was c. b. s. was going to buy q. v. c.
and the federal rules would have prohibited comcast we were the largest stockholder in q. v. c. from participating in our ownership position
it would have been a we would have had to take non voting stock get off the board of directors
and we had started this company
we were on the board of directors
we had a great influence in the company
we were part of a partnership we didn't want to sell
barry said if you don't want to sell then you've got to buy the company because this is a legitimate strategy and it was
we were willing to pay more than c. b. s. was willing to pay and that's really what happened
it you know it turned out great for our shareholders comcast because last year q. v. c. did
sure
a quarter of a billion dollars of cash flow and a billion and a half dollars worth of sales and grew twenty five percent
so we're very happy for our company
we had a fiduciary obligation to our stockholders that we want to see a half a billion dollar investment that we had in q. v. c. turned into a non voting stock position in c. b. s.
and that is too much money for us for our size of a company to say you'll have no stake in it so we'd rather turn it into a control position
when you look around the world that you're exist in today what property would you most like to have
what company do you think is really poised to make an impact in the future other than comcast
well that's that's a
would you like to be where ray smith is today
not particularly
he
would you like to be where john malone is today
i think that's probably the most interesting
he's got enough national scale and given his ability to roll out new channels create new products take advantage of things like cable modem in a broader way than almost anybody
how about rupert murdoch
outside the united states i think he's got a he is i envy his position probably the most
he bet on the distribution system
we've heard so much lately in the media content is king
content is king what rupert did was to build a satellite system in europe in asia and now latin america in australia to the point that content is king but it's only if he says so
yes
and he's somewhere above king
said said
he owns the whole distribution network
said another way he's become a big gatekeeper around the world
he sure has
and he can determine whether you get on
or not
with your content in china in certain parts of
and then the ability as the world gets smaller when he does one deal it can be distributed in all his networks
and so i think time warner has a you know has a great collection of assets and i you know i there's an awful lot of companies that have done
yeah
some interesting things
in our case we we have bet on wired wireless and content
we're not the biggest in any of them
yeah
but we have a very unique position
how about disney
how well positioned are they
they've got you know an incredible franchise and certainly a. b. c. is now even icing on the cake but they wanted some distribution
so it's the marriage
it's not all content or all distribution it's it's the marriage of both
and in my belief cable is still a better distributor in the long haul than say a broadcast television network where you only have one signal at a time
i like the idea of one hundred signals and a computer signal and a phone signal because as as one business goes a little soft another business might get hot
we love coaxial and fiber optics don't we
we sure do
one last question
hold on one second
if you what's the most exciting product other than this thing you just mentioned that you've seen coming down the pike
i mean turn our audience on with respect to something that's coming in their future they may not know about
well i i think that wireless as much as we love fiber and coax
yeah
i do think wireless has an ability if it gets low enough in price to connect to your p. c. connect to a phone there's no reason a phone has to be connected to a wall and the ability to walk around we have a just some plans in wireless telephony that i think are very exciting
i think in the computer world is probably the one that is is over the top in terms of imagination because the chip that's in a p. c. today is the same power that was the best mainframe computer in m. i. t. twenty years ago
amazing isn't it
amazing and you network that over a high speed network all over the world you're putting together computing power that's never been seen by mankind and then you project that out three four years the power to manipulate information in an all digital world
i can't give you the products yet but i know there's an awful lot of people working on it and we want to be a little bit part of it
what stuns me brian is how fast it's changing just as you're saying the power of the microprocessor
that's the driver
the power is just it's unbelievable
i think that is the single as we look back on the twentieth century you're going to look at several points of major industrial impact on our society the things that cause change
and one of them has got to be the microprocessor chip and hopefully it'll be connected to a network we'll create supersonic jet
and that changes the world
and how important do you think will be the internet as in changing the world
that's a great question
i i defer to the computer experts
it's a moment in time where it seems to be the rage
i'm not yet convinced that that's the ultimate application because it's cumbersome it's not organized it's not designed for the mass world
but it keeps growing and growing and growing and growing and finding new applications
so i i think it's maybe a precursor to a more organized version of an electronic digital world
but whether it's called the internet or some other version i don't know
i keep thinking of new ideas
and the interesting thing is that they're constantly we're constantly witnessing new companies being formed every day
in the lower part of manhattan young kids are developing software that's having amazing concepts
now how it enters the marketplace and how it's capitalized scares a lot of people but it's stunning to me you know how people are finding a place frequently those guys who are in places like and you're seeing the eyes of guys like you and gates and others constantly with a scope out there trying to find out who's doing what so you can
well all the good jobs
buy them
get created by small companies
all the new products
microsoft didn't exist
i. b. m. was the big giant
that's why sure you worry about all the big companies
yeah
and bill gates didn't found the internet
and bill gates himself didn't find the internet
and so that's what makes it exciting and challenging and it's partially because these folks in a garage have a little m. i. t. mainframe called a personal
yeah
computer
they have the ability with just a few people to come up and do things that it would have taken the big corporations to do many you know twenty five years ago
so i do think there's a role for the entrepreneur
i am a big fan that that's the driving engine in all this change otherwise the big companies tend to be staid they tend to be monopolistic monolithic
it's not going to be possible to be like that and that's why you've got to get out there and try out all these different areas
there's no one right answer and you want to listen to all these ideas because you know somebody else specializes in something that a lot smarter than you do
brian roberts is president of comcast one of the important cable companies
they're involved in a lot of other businesses some of them we have taken note of
it's great to have you here
thank you
we'll be right back
stay with us
for almost fifty years dr. billy taylor has been the great ambassador of the jazz world
in the nineteen forties and nineteen fifties he was part of the legendary jazz scene on manhattan's swing street
emmy award winning c. b. s. arts correspondent and recording artist of over forty albums he is currently artistic advisor on jazz for the kennedy center in washington
and i am pleased to have him here as they begin on april twenty ninth women in jazz a festival that begins on duke ellington's birthday and it ends what may first
when does it end
may first
may first
yeah
three days
it's great to have you here
it's nice to be here
back i should say
i enjoy
thank you
tell me about jazz at lincoln center and women in jazz
what's that going to be and
well those are two different things
yeah
lincoln center is
i'm sorry
i mean i mean the kennedy center
yeah
well at at the kennedy center i'm delighted
a couple of years ago they asked me to come in and
right
be their advisor for jazz
and one of the things i wanted to do was to have some special programs which honored women and honored people who had been very creative and have added so much to jazz
well charlie parker and duke ellington and many others are the obvious people
so i wanted to start with art tatum with mary lou williams and with a few others that have been overlooked a little i think
so we did a piano series which was called the art tatum piano panorama series and we had five great pianists and and they played solo piano
they had this picture of art tatum looking benignly down on them when they played
yeah
and so one of the writers asked one of the pianists didn't that intimidate you i think it was kenny baron i'm not sure
he said no it gave me a lot of in inspiration so it was that's a part of it
but the women's jazz festival came to me because it's something i've always wanted to do
i've always thought that women in jazz were the single
most overlooked
overlooked and ill used resource that we have
women have like mary lou williams marion mcparton and dorothy donegan jane ireblum there are so many women that that have done things which are unusual
jane ireblum is someone who played for the launching of a rocket
you know i mean she got a commission to write a piece i mean i don't know any other jazz musician ma male or female that that has done that you know
so many people who do things it just kind of gets taken for granted especially if they're women
so
now who are the women we're talking about other than those you've mentioned
oh the
i mean who are the i mean when you talk about women in jazz
well there are a there there's a saxophonist for instance who has who sounded like charlie parker
her name was vy red is vy red
she's still around
there are before mary lou
playing the sax
yeah
plays wonderful saxophone
unfortunately she wasn't available for this particular thing
we have terry lynn carrington who who's a wonderful young drummer who is one of the best young drummers around
i mean you talk about young lions she's a lioness if you will
yeah
i mean and and she certainly is comparable to any drummer of any age
she played on a festival a couple of years ago where she played rise and fly with max roach and and
yeah
butch oh my
he's going to kill me
one two wonderful drummers two two of the best drummers in jazz and she was the third person
i mean they played she you know each they played and she cleaned up
wonderful player
many women like this are dorothy donegan for instance
when she was a young lady used to hang out with art tatum and tatum used to take take delight in sort of holding her back while other guys played and then he said you know after two or three guys played he'd let her play
then and none of the other guys wanted to sit down and play anymore because she was a wonderful pianist then and now
do you have one all time hero in jazz
i can't say one
i i there i'm too indebted to too many people i guess
tatum obviously is is my mentor
he's the one who's piano inspired me to do the things that i'm trying to do
duke ellington was someone who i looked up to and learned a lot from
oddly enough joe jones the drummer the great drummer with with count basie's band was one of the most influential people on my career
when i came to new york he adopted me
i mean he was my foster father and he introduced me to all of the older guys and so i got to meet sidney boucher i got to meet zutty singleton and all of the old new orleans guys the people from chicago
he just kind of took me around and said here's this new piano player
yeah
you know and so he he just sort of adopted me and that was fun
are we experiencing some kind of renaissance now do you think
yes we are
thanks to many people who have been inspired by the success of wynton marsalis and the kind of press and coverage that he's gotten exposure
a lot of young guys say i can do that and so you've got roy hargrove you've got turnits blanchard you've got a whole bunch of trumpet players
and you have people who have actually influenced women like marcus roberts
right
and and other people who are coming along and doing things carl allen wonderful drummer people smitty marvin smitty smith
yeah
the the great drummer
you've got benny green
you've got all kinds of folks
and also there is the fact that i assume that at some moment of pride to you of what's happened with jazz at lincoln ce at at kennedy center but also what wynton has done
i mean just last year you had the recognition and they elevated jazz at lincoln center to a to a peer rank with other
right
performing art centers
right
well that that because of the success and because of the fact that wynton is doing what we're all trying to do and that is bring in new audiences to the concert hall
and we're doing that at the kennedy center
kennedy center is celebrating its twenty fifth anniversary this year
i know that
you've got a pen there
that's right
and one of the things that we're going to do in that celebration is feature diva which is an all woman band
yeah
and because there larry wilka who is the president of of the center is very supportive of the jazz programs we're doing
we're doing a lot of educational things
why has wynton i mean this is this show is not about wynton but why has wynton been able to be so significant in this appreciation
because he's good
just good
he's good
i mean he plays the trumpet he composes he does all the things he talks the talk and he walks the walk
i mean he he can do
that's it
what he's talking about
and and that is good and bad
people love him for it or hate him for it
i mean you know how can one guy do all of this you know
well and so young you know
but they forget that that miles was eighteen when miles davis joined charlie parker
dizzy gillespie was about eighteen when about twenty when he and charlie parker were inventing bebop
i mean so youth is not the problem
i mean he has spent time
he's learned his craft and he does what he does
do you play every day
i try to
you try to
yeah
yeah
it's important
i mean you have to spend time with that instrument
i mean it's it's a horrible master
i mean you you can't just say well i'm going to do a whole bunch of other things and go sit down and and play the way i want to play the piano won't allow that
if it wasn't the piano for you what would it be
well i had had aspirations to to play the tenor saxophone
i love the sound of ben webster and i would buy a record of his if it had four bars on it
but i i was fortunate enough in high school to sit next to a guy named frank west
yeah
who is one of the greatest tenor players in jazz today and he was playing like that when he was fourteen years old you know
yeah
so so for me that got me back to the piano
i think well the one thing that's interesting to me about jazz artists it is how many of them are so well grounded musically who have a musicality about them who have either studied classical music
mm hm
who are real students of music and that's their base from which they went into jazz
that's in danger
that that situation is in danger because of the cuts in the national endowment
really
yeah
one of the reasons we have so many of these young kids is that for at least fifteen or twenty years the endowment gave grants so that someone could some could come and study with me
right
could study at the jazzmobile excuse me go to berkeley or go somewhere
you could get a grant and study with someone that jazz
when i was coming up and wanted to study jazz there was no one to study with
i couldn't i i took regular music i mean european
right
classical music in school because there were no jazz teachers like this
could you i bring you to a class of five year olds somewhere in america and i say to them this is dr. billy taylor
he plays the piano well
he knows a lot about music could you sit and play and talk to them and figure out who had potential musically
would there be something they did the way they reacted some sense about them that would tell you
if it were a small class of say eight or ten kids and i could focus on each one of them it's possible because if there is some musicality in that age level at the age of five they are they want to do it
so they're not bashful about it
they want to they want to well let me try that or can i can i show you what i know or i they want to share that
and and so there are many young people
i i'm doing a piece on a young musician who's a very fine musician himself
his name is elmar whitfield
and he's got a kid who is six years old who plays the drums and i mean he plays the drums
in the piece i've got him sitting down
is this the c. b. s. piece
yeah
he's sitting down and he's playing the drums with feet hands and everything i mean six years old
i can't do that
that's amazing
yeah
and does he what do you think he has
what was he born with
an ear
well he came up his father and his mother are musicians and his mother's a singer and pianist
and he's heard she claims that that his mother claims that he kicked in rhythm before he ca felt my stomach
see that's what i think is so important
was a bass drum
that's what i think is so important is the notion of making sure that music is there in the house music is around that there is some
sure
so many people are not introduced to music for whatever reason
they may be introduced to books
they may be introduced to sports
they may be introduced to something else or none of the above but those that are introduced to music probably
those the kids who are introduced to the arts are not the kids we're having problems will and it always worries me that people say let's get back to basics and they want to cut the arts out and they have all of these reasons for for not doing arts programs not having music not having other performing arts and so forth not realizing that if you count noses you look at the kids who are dancing the kids who are painting the kids who are playing music they're not the kids we're having problems with
they have another agenda
they have a purpose in life
absolutely
and and it's once again it's a wasted resource
yeah
dr. billy taylor artistic director jazz for the kennedy center
the women in jazz april twenty ninth through may first
thank you
great to see you
good to see you
thank you for joining us
we'll see you next time
lisa the secretary of state has been in the middle east twenty times
he had seven days of flying all over the middle east this time
he's on his way home right now and he has an agreement but my question is what does that agreement accomplish exactly
well first of all he's brought an end or he's hopefully bringing an end to the immediate crisis which is a huge flare up in the fighting in the ongoing war of attrition between the hezbollah militia in lebanon and israeli forces in the south of lebanon who occupy a buffer zone in south lebanon
the last couple of weeks have seen an enormous escalation of that fighting with the israelis pummeling lebanon with artillery strikes and air raids killing hundreds of civilians including one hundred one blow last week tragically when israeli artillery accidentally hit a u. n. base that was sheltering u. n. refugees
and hezbollah on the other end sending some four hundred katyusha rockets into northern israel causing a great deal of mayhem there and injuring dozens of israeli civilians
that slug fest is supposed to come to an end in one end at four o'clock local time
in addition to that christopher succeeded in establishing new rules of engagement for that war of attrition
he's basically codified an earlier understanding that was reached in nineteen ninety three after a similar israeli offensive
the aim is to keep the civilians out of this fight to restrict the fighting to the combatants to restrict the fighting to the combatants that is israeli soldiers on one side and hezbollah guerrillas on the other side and to leave the civilians out of it
they have increasingly become the victims in this war of attrition and israel has now pledged not to hit at populated areas in lebanon and the hezbollah has pledged not to fire rockets into israel
the idea here is to bring about a period of relative calm not to bring about peace in south lebanon
no one thinks at this point that that particular war has run its course
the idea is just to restrict civilian casualties
lisa of course the larger problem here is the peace process the peace process between israel and syria and israel and the palestinians
you've had a busy week
i gather the palestinians the p. l. o. voted to change their charter in terms of the end of the state of israel and the israeli government responded
what's going on there
and is that more important even than this cease fire
probably so yes
what happened this week is that the p. l. o. de facto parliament the palestine national council called the p. n. c. met in gaza and agreed to as arafat had committed it would agree to changing the palestinian charter the p. l. o. charter to remove from it noxious statements and there were quite a few of them calling for the destruction of israel among other things
in the same week the labor party in israel of prime minister shimon peres removed from its platform in the run up to may twenty ninth elections a previous clause which had ruled out the establishment of a palestinian state
these are symbolic moves
they basically acknowledged realities that we all knew already existed
we knew that the p. l. o. wasn't going to bring about israel's destruction
and we all understood that the peace process was moving us inexorably toward a palestinian state
but neither side had said so explicitly
and at a time when mistrust between israelis and palestinians is still quite profound those kinds of statements are very important
lisa there is
when it comes to trying to build some kind of mutual goodwill
what was interesting about the decision of the p. n. c. was not so much that arafat succeeded in getting approval for the changing or the amending of the charter
that was more or less expected
but the margin that he succeeded in getting the vote was five hundred four to fifty four
no one thought that was in any way possible before the vote was taken
lisa we i have to
on the israeli side when i heard the news that the labor party had changed its platform i thought you know if someone were to have fallen asleep for the last three years and suddenly woken up to these headlines he'd think he was still dreaming
that a ruling party in israel would essentially say okay to a palestinian state was inconceivable six months ago
and it happened really without creating much of a controversy in israel
and that's mainly because of what the p. n. c. did in gaza this week
moderation begets moderation
lisa we have to say thanks to you for being with us at three o'clock in the morning israeli time and
you're very welcome
do it again for us please
thank you very much
sure
okay doyle after the success in the middle east the president does have a couple of problems looming on the horizon
he learned this week that there are going to be no fewer than six committees investigating in congress investigating his decision to turn a blind eye to the iranians arming the bosnian muslims during the ban on the embargo on arms
now this is no question a turning point in the war over there
the muslims were able to compete effectively
the croats skimmed off enough weapons that they also began beating the serbs
what's the question that the president has to face
well the question he faces ken is whether this was the only decision he could have made and whether there were other ways to help the bosnians than inviting iran a country we regularly denounce as the chief sponsor of terrorism into bosnia and croatia
in fact iran played a role in those events in the middle east this week because the administration found itself condemning iran for sending rockets to the hezbollah guerrillas who were shooting at israel
two weeks ago at this same table i told you about some of the initial reporting we had done on this story on how clinton as you said gave the greenlight to allow croatia and bosnia to get weapons from iran when they needed them
in the last two weeks we've learned two or three more things about that chain of events
one was that the iranian presence in bosnia actually did grow as a result
the iranians sent trainers in to help the bosnians learn how to use those weapons sent other trainers in to help them with their secret police and their intelligence
and in fact one of the problems that still face that nato and the bosnians still face is that there is apparently an iranian trained assassination squad at large in bosnia going after some of the political opponents of the pro islamic line there
a second thing we learned is that that decision was made so quick within the clinton administration that the secretary of defense mr. perry and the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff general shalikashvili didn't know about it at the time and weren't very happy about it after the fact as you can imagine
now you say that there are going to be investigations and studies on capitol hill
but you have bob dole the republican nominee who has been quite critical of the way clinton handled this and yet isn't this very close to the policy he himself was advocating
he was a leading advocate of trying to find a way to arm the bosnians
how much hypocrisy is it here and does that undercut the ability of the republicans to really go after clinton on this issue
oh there's a lot of politics at play in this
there's no question about that
but actually on that point senator dole has an interesting and credible line
he's saying if you had played at the doorway if you had lifted the embargo and sent american weapons you wouldn't be in this pickle with the iranians there
and that goes to another question the administration is now wrestling with
they've been saying we did this because we had no alternative well they haven't actually presented evidence to that and also this week there surfaced a story that richard holbrooke who was then the official in charge of bosnia policy actually did propose an alternative
he proposed going to saudi arabia and some other american allies getting them to send weapons in
the administration turned that down because they were afraid it would embarrassing and that it would disrupt relationships with the europeans
doyle the president just got back from this big trip to asia and to russia which was intended partly to show that he has had some successes in foreign policy and that foreign policy can be something that works in his favor
how much is this kind of noise you're talking about going to hurt
this disrupts that nice picture of president clinton as the great as a newly competent and confident foreign policy leader
and there's a in a larger sense i guess it's a lesson about the unpredictability of foreign policy the fact there's a lot you can't control
there's another headache that he faces on bosnia that also surfaced this week
the pentagon said publicly for the first time that the troops the eighteen thousand american peacekeeping troops in bosnia are not going to be out of there by the december twentieth deadline that had been promised that the process of stabilizing bosnia and getting elections there is going so slowly that the troops are going to have to be there at least a month longer and possibly longer
so the president faces the problem of going into those fall elections with more troops there vulnerable troops and a commitment that looks perhaps open ended
all right
let's switch from foreign policy to the capitol hill and budget politics
this week the headline writers labeled this agreement between the president and the republicans in congress a truce in the budget wars
so you say elizabeth that after seven months of trying the washington establishment has now figured out to get an agreement that takes us through the next five months
five months
is that right
exactly
what happened to the next seven years
well one hurdle at a time ken
this was a real rush job as you all know
right
it took them what
seven months to get something together for the next five months and that's really it
we had thirteen continuing resolutions
those are bills that had to go through the house and the senate just to keep things going
we had two shutdowns
one of them was twenty seven a record breaking twenty seven days long last winter
finally both sides decided that they had nothing to gain from holding out any longer
but we should be very clear that what they've agreed to this is not the seven year balanced budget plan as you say
this just gets us through the next five months
it does not touch what makes up two thirds of the budget which is entitlements medicare medicaid the big ticket items the root of the deficit problem
that said they're all saying this is heroic and this is historic and both sides have something to brag about
the president has something to brag about
he stopped the republicans from some long term policy decisions about the environment
they wanted to stick these riders on these spending bills from increased logging in the tongas national forest in alaska to rearranging the management of the mojave desert which has changed its status to not allowing new species to be put for protection on the endangered species act
also he won five billion dollars for programs that he really did want his americorps volunteer service program the arts head start things like that
now on the other hand though the republicans won something and they did succeed in cutting more than twenty billion dollars from the same spending of last year
so they've got bragging rights too
isn't this one of those examples of where both sides claim victory and both sides were right
and that's very hard in washington these days given the polarization and the political atmosphere for each side to acknowledge that yeah we came together and we gave something it seems to me a classic example of the center pulling people toward the middle
exactly
and it took seven months for them to realize that it wasn't such a bad thing to say we gave a little they gave a little and here we are and that is president clinton's message right now which is a good message for him because when you talk to people out there as you do all the time they want to see the two sides working together
and that's his message
see we did it we can work together
elizabeth if you go back to last year the republicans really had the president backed up against the wall
he was agreeing to sizable cuts in medicare to sizable cuts in medicaid
he proposed cuts in government spending over the next seven years that made his cabinet all scream at the possibility that they might actually be enacted
and medicare too
and medicare as well
did the republicans make a mistake by not taking what he put on the table by not saying okay we'll do this it's only half a loaf but a half loaf is better than what they got which is about a tenth of a loaf
well hindsight's a wonderful thing
and a lot of them are walking around on capitol hill saying well maybe we should have taken that when we did i mean it's just like health care
probably president clinton should have taken some of the deals that the republicans
it's very similar yeah
right then
but you know they both wanted to play this out
neither side was sure which way it was going
you're right
we all sat around this table saying what's president clinton doing and by and large he seems to have won this politically although as i say the republicans did win the policy war in terms of they did they are going to be able to go out in november and say we did restrain spending
now nobody's anywhere near the seven year balanced budget plan that they were talking about but they have they can say that this has been one step
elizabeth we're already halfway into what should be the process of coming up with a budget for next year
what happens next
do we go through all this all over again next winter
we certainly do
in fact some of the republicans on capitol hill just yesterday were saying you know all this stuff that we're fighting with the white house now these riders these environmental riders we're already sticking them in the appropriations bill we're working on today
another issue that is kicking around on capitol hill to the benefit for the most part of the democrats at this point at least is the minimum wage
they're energized by this
the republicans seem to be a little bit off their mark on the minimum wage
they want to raise it to the democrats ninety cents an hour
it's proved to be a very popular issue with the public
just in terms of policy alan murray not necessarily politics for the moment who wins and who loses or what does it mean
well ken there's been an awful lot of hot air pumped into this issue so let me try and deflate it a little bit
the opponents say that the increase in the minimum wage from four dollars and twenty five cents to five dollars and fifteen cents would eliminate jobs destroy jobs and they're probably right
i mean anyone who has ever taken an introductory economics course learns that minimum wages do cost jobs
but there have been a number of studies done on this in states that have already raised the minimum wage
you've got eleven states out there that have higher minimums than the national minimum and what those studies suggest is that the job loss is probably pretty small
there's one significant study by a couple of respected economists that actually shows this was in new jersey actually showed a job increase
so it's very hard to make an argument that this hurts the economy much
on the other hand the proponents say that this is the answer or part of the answer to dealing with the incredible squeeze that middle class families have felt over the last couple of decades and that's clearly not the case
most of the people who would benefit from an increase in the minimum wage are under the age of twenty five
very few of them have families
very few of them have dependents
and a fairly large number of them are teen age kids of affluent families
so it really isn't the answer to the economic problem that this country has that we've been talking about for some time
so you might say why are we having this great national debate about the minimum wage
and of course the answer is politics and as you said ken it's turned out to be very good politics indeed for the democrats
well one of the reasons it's good politics is because it's very concrete
it's very tangible
you can talk about adding ninety cents an hour or for people who are making eight thousand dollars or nine thousand dollars a year contrast that with the republican plans for the economy which have been much vaguer
they've been saying no we're going to reduce regulations and therefore business will grow and it's a much longer chain of arguments
it's very hard for the average person to understand
i was talking today congressman mcintosh who's going to put out a proposal tomorrow morning offering businesses a payroll tax credit for hiring low wage employees
having said that alone you know it's already more complicated than the minimum wage which is very easy to understand
and the interesting thing about the minimum wage eighty percent or more of the american public supports it
but what focus groups show is that people politicians who oppose the minimum wage really make people angry
i mean here we are living at a time when chief executives make five million dollars ten million dollars a year the stock market is soaring there are a lot of people out there making a lot of money and for a politician to stand up and say that some poor guy working at popeye's fried chicken shouldn't make five dollars and fifteen cents an hour makes a lot of people mad
so it's a terrible issue for the republicans and they're scared to death about it
right
so organized labor congress the white house they're all together on this
they're marching people up to capitol hill to talk about living on the minimum wage
why don't the republicans dig themselves out on this or can they
well it's a problem
and part of what's going on her particularly in the house you have this interesting split between speaker gingrich who has been traveling around the country giving speeches raising money i think tonight he's in california he's getting ready to do the jay leno show
and somebody told me he's going to spend the night in the san diego zoo this is the way the speaker's been spending and congressman dick armey who's actually been running the house for the last few weeks
speaker gingrich made an offhand comment saying he'd be willing to have a vote on the minimum wage get it over with and congressman armey said no way we're not going to do this your people won't go along you can't do it and so it came to a halt
now they're trying to figure out whether there's some way they can come up with some alternative proposals that maybe they attach to the minimum wage to do a package to put a republican stamp on it
but i think the minimum wage will most likely be increased in the next month or two
okay
you know president clinton said i think it was in the state of the union alan that the average congressman in washington made more money during the period of time that the government was shut down than a minimum wage worker makes in a year
now that's a pretty compelling political case to make
all right
senator dole the republican putative nominee has been scheduled to give a series of speeches that spell out his vision for america
the first one was about the federal bench to which he says president clinton appoints liberal judges
let's listen to mr. dole
many of the judges mr. clinton has appointed to the federal bench are precisely the ones who are dismantling those guardrails that protect society from the predatory the violent and the anti social elements in our midst
his appointees to the supreme court have been among the most willing to use technicalities to overturn death sentences for brutal murders
they frequently vote to grant last minute stays of execution even when the death row inmates claims are plainly frivolous
and a startling number of mr. clinton's lower court judges have demonstrated an outright hostility to law enforcement
steve roberts mr. dole says that this is stealth liberalism and that president clinton if he's reelected will have appointed half or even more of the entire federal judiciary by the time he serves out another four year term
is this about judges or is it about something else
well as you can see from the dole clip that you played he's really trying to use the judgeship argument to get at one of the issues that the republicans have used to very great success over the last generation and that's the issue of crime
just think about you know coddling criminals law and order soft on crime
these have been among the most resonant and most effective of republican arguments for a long time
so federal judges are going to become this year's metaphor for willie horton
well in some ways yes
but one of the reasons why it's hard for bob dole to make this case among other things bob dole voted for one hundred eighty two out of one hundred eighty five of the clinton judges which is he says well i was deferring to the right of the president to pick judges even so he also voted by the way for the two clinton nominees to the supreme court judges justices breyer and ginsburg
but also bill clinton has been very adroit at slipping this punch
it's one of the reasons why he won in ninety two
first of all he has not been an opponent to the death penalty
when he was governor of arkansas he resided over three executions
he has signed this week a bill which provides the budget bill provides more money for cops on the street which is something he fought for
and when this judgeship issue first surfaced a few weeks ago he was one of the first people to attack one of his own appointments judge harold baer in new york who had issued a very strange ruling in which he disallowed evidence in a drug case
and clinton got up and said i don't think judge baer ruled rightly in fact he got a lot of criticism from liberals for attacking the judge
so he has been very adroit at inoculating himself against this kind of attack
steve i ask about the sort of core assumptions of senator dole's charge
has bill clinton packed the federal bench with a bunch of a way out liberals
not by any definition that i know of
as i say dole himself supported almost all of them
i talked to one judge in california a very outspoken liberal judge who was appointed by president carter a man named steve rheinhardt who has gotten a lot of publicity recently
rheinhardt's big complaint is that clinton has caved that clinton has caved into the moderate establishment rather than appoint strong liberal judges which helps clinton in some ways protect himself
the other argument that is clear is that clinton has not gone he has gone for minorities and he's gone for women
his record on balancing the judiciary is very clear
but there have been relatively few cases relatively few decisions recently in which dole can talk about
you notice he didn't give specifics in there
and we went through a generation where republicans sort of point to cases where judges integrated the schools and could be charged with all sorts of social engineering and taking charge of institutions
we had twelve years of republican judge appointments on the federal judiciary and many of the recent decisions have actually been criticized by liberals not by conservatives
steve as you pointed out the crime issue used to be a clear win for the republicans and now it's much muddier between the two parties
how much has the assault weapons ban had to do with it
well that an important element because i think for a long time that republicans had the support of the law enforcement establishment but by opposing the assault weapons ban they drove the police organizations into the arms of the democrats
and so now bill clinton can campaign surrounded by those blue uniforms
every place he goes
every place he goes
we're going to see a lot of uniforms in the next months
that's it folks
that's all we have time for tonight
those of you who were with us last week and were joined when karen tumulty joined us on the very date her baby was due i want to let you know that the baby did arrive late and large
jack arrived yesterday at nine and one half pounds
welcome aboard jack
mother and son are doing fine
that's it for washington week tonight
thanks for joining us
april twenty fifth nineteen ninety six
president clinton invited me into the oval office and i showed him pictures and i have found that murderers don't like to have their identities revealed
his wife and daughters left the country for safety's sake
there were two newspapers that called for my death saying that i should be killed
they ambushed his convoy
all of a sudden chris says jesus it's gunfire and i look and i see the dirt kicking up all around us and i see the windows shatter the car in front of me
tonight mr. ambassador forced out at the point of a gun
this is a. b. c. news nightline
reporting from washington ted koppel
in a minute you'll meet u. s. ambassador robert krueger
he and i recorded an interview together which is likely to drive some people at the state department up the wall
ambassador krueger speaks his mind a little more freely than is customary for people in his line of work but then it's not his normal line of work
bob krueger was for six months a u. s. senator from texas
he was appointed to fill out the remainder of lloyd bentsen's term when bentsen was confirmed as secretary of the treasury
but it's not difficult to understand why kay bailey hutchison beat krueger when he ran for the texas senate seat in his own right
he comes across as a good man but he must have struck a lot of texans as a little pedantic given his penchant for quoting shakespeare and cicero during the campaign
he is after all a former professor
there is a lot about bob krueger that exemplifies the best in america
he appears deeply principled a man with a profound sense of right and wrong
since a lot of u. s. ambassadorships are political appointments anyway you can well understand how the appropriate people at the clinton white house might consider krueger for just such a post and they did
the white house phoned on july seventh nineteen ninety three and mentioned several places as possibilities
the last thing they said was would you consider burundi and i said well give me twenty four hours to think about all this and i put down the phone and i ran to the globe
i thought i knew where burundi was but i wanted to make sure
krueger's home near austin texas is about nine thousand miles from burundi
burundi is right next door to rwanda but back in nineteen ninety three we hadn't yet focused on events in rwanda either
and it was purely intuitive
by the next morning i just said you can forget about these other countries i said i don't know why but i i just have this feeling that burundi is where i should go and if if it's open to me that's where i would like to go
but it would be almost a year before krueger's appointment became official and during that time events took place in the region that couldn't help but trouble a man who was about to take his wife and two young daughters there
thank you for being here today to celebrate
we look forward to seeing you in bujumbura
many thanks
in the spring of nineteen ninety four a horrifying massacre in rwanda a killing spree that was almost unimaginable except that we were seeing it on our televisions
hutus who make up eighty five percent of the population set out to rid their country of their tutsi rivals who make up the other fifteen percent
hundreds of thousands died many literally hacked to death
survivors fled across the border sparking fear of chaos in neighboring burundi a country with an almost identical tribal makeup and with its own very bloody history
when ambassador krueger arrived in bujumbura the capital of burundi it was clear that the country had not erupted into the chaos of neighboring rwanda
here the tutsis the elite of the army the judicial system education and the media were still very much in control and while the president is a hutu he is basically powerless
it's just about time for us to go to church down the road
four eggs
they love it here and so do we
at first the ambassador his wife kathleen and their two daughters led a fairly traditional life for a diplomat and his family in africa
they took these home videos
i later decided i think i ordered a glass of ice cream
i meant to say a glass with ice
but now we're enjoying a beautiful sunday afternoon
it's really very pretty today
the air is cool and breezy
it's still a very nice place
but the ambassador and his wife also spoke of the tension that they saw in the people and of the unsettling sporadic gunfire in the capital
the tutsis in burundi looked to what happened in rwanda and they look to what is happening in their own country and they know that they are a minority and they are afraid
it is fear that drives this society in a cruel cruel fashion
throughout the city the ambassador and his family encountered the scars of past violence
many of these houses once belonged to hutus who were pushed out into the countryside out of the world's view and at first out of the view of the ambassador and his family
in fact that's how i first came into the pattern of going into the countryside because i would receive these reports of massacres going on in the countryside and i would go to the authorities with these reports and they would say ah mr. ambassador c'est rumeur mr. ambassador it's just rumor and in january of ninety five a danish missionary came to me and said ambassador we have these reports of these terrible massacres in buduganswa province which is about fifty miles north of the capital bujumbura
i said all right if you want me to try to help i said i am so tired of going to the authorities and being told it's all rumor and in two days we were able to put together the names of seventy people who had been killed just on two little hillsides in the country
i saw the bodies bodies that had eight days later still had not been buried
i turned back the cloth and looked at those bodies and photographed those skeletons
on his next trip to washington krueger took his pictures to the white house
president clinton invited me into the oval office and i showed him pictures and president clinton said bob how can i help you and i said well you've recently sent me a very supportive letter i said i just want i said if you wouldn't mind my printing that or releasing it then people would know that it is not bob krueger acting on his own but is acting for the president of the united states and the american people he said i will do that he said release the letter he said but not only that he said i will make a statement indicating that you are supporting united states interests by your defense of human rights
i went with these photographs i put up the photographs i released the names of the people and i what i said diplomatically was that when you ask the people who was responsible for this they said it was men in uniform
i think everybody in burundi knew whose men that were wearing uniforms
it didn't stop the army's actions
i think it probably slowed it down
but it also let them know that they couldn't just carry on those kind of actions without the world knowing and i have found that murderers don't like to have their identities revealed
and i could not have seen what i saw going on in that country and remain silent
and if i had the american people would in my judgment have had every right to be embarrassed about their ambassador
during the next several months as ambassador krueger continued his missions into the countryside he became increasingly unpopular among the tutsi elite
in april of nineteen ninety five he went to northeastern burundi to look into reports of another massacre
he discovered over four hundred had died
it is particularly tragic when the very forces that are designed to provide the security and protection of people are the forces that are feared by the people themselves
i went to the hospital and there in the hospital in this very very simple hospital you know no screens on the windows but but one doctor i looked at this eighteen month old infant lying there
she had been bayoneted in the vagina by a soldier who wanted to make sure that this was a hutu who would never bear children
she was still alive
she was still alive
when did you go from realizing that that a transition had occurred between clearly being unpopular with the government possibly even teetering at the brink of being persona non grata as the diplomats like to say and actually being in some danger
after i really related this massacre in buduganswa in which i gave the press conference i gave the names of the dead i showed the pictures and so forth there were two newspapers that realize that newspapers are just political screeds i mean they just they just mimeograph the things that they turn out
but there were two of them that called for my death saying that i should be that i should be killed
but at any rate i guess the the nearest that that i came was the foreign minister lived next door to me and he came to me in early june of last year ninety five and he said bob you know he said you know there are all sorts of bad things happening in chibitoki the northwest province and he said i think i want to go there and see he said would you care to go along and i said i remember i said sure jean marie if you think it's safe he said well we'll get an army escort
the burundi countryside has some very winding roads
ambassador krueger found himself on a narrow path with a sheer rock bluff on one side and a two hundred foot fall on the other
he was traveling with his security officer chris riley
we heard this pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop pop all of a sudden chris says jesus it's gunfire and i look and i see the dirt kicking up all around us and i see the windows shatter the car in front of me and i look around and i see larry semme the security officer in the in the toyota following me in a land cruiser with his long frame and i can see the bullets hitting his car and the windows shatter there and then i see his long frame lean out with a pistol and he returns fire to up above and meanwhile chris has said back up eddie he backs up
we're so close to the car in front of us that we have to back up to get around and there's so little room to get around that we sideswipe all the way down
the car that was that close in front of us had two dead and three wounded
the car behind me had ten bullets through it
ours ours had only one
we get fifty yards up the road and there are the burundi soldiers and half of them are up in the truck standing around with their a. k. forty sevens
the other half are sort of walking around on the road
they don't feel there's anything to be afraid of
they never returned a single shot of fire
the only fire returned at these attackers was the fire returned by the diplomatic security guard from the united states government and i don't think there's any doubt in anybody's mind in burundi who it was that was responsible for that attack
what
now
what happened as a consequence of that
i mean at the very least one would think that the u. s. government would send a stiff note
we certainly i mean we indicated our you know our opposition to it but but when you're dealing with the government to whom do you want to send it you know
i mean you send it to a government to a civilian government that has no control over the military what does it mean
i mean the thing i did not want to happen as i mentioned earlier i did not want to be recalled because that to me would have conveyed the message that the u. s. government can be frightened away and i didn't want to convey that message at all
but in point of fact you you ultimately did leave then
what caused you to leave
ultimately i left some months later
there were people in washington who thought that was a more specific death threat against me and got concerned for for my safety and asked me to come back
the ambassador's wife and daughters left the country first but before krueger departed even when he could no longer venture from the capital without permission from washington the tales of horror kept coming to him
a worker came to me at the house and said ambassador there have been thirty to fifty people killed about a mile and a half away and i said well let me call the embassy and let me go right now before they take the bodies away the father was there and i was told he'd lost two sons
he went to the to the straw pallet he pulled back the brightly colored cloth
there was his five year old son his head split cranium totally open all the way down to the eye
after they soldiers had split open his head with a hatchet they then cut off his penis
so i went to the minister of defense and i said i know that you claim that you have been making searches for arms i said here are the pictures i said five year old children do not hide arms
ten year old boys do not hide arms i said i would not go to you out of disrespect
i go to you because i do not think you want these things to happen and i must report them to my government and to my president because the american people do not think this sort of thing should happen
today the united states has no ambassador in burundi
the official residence where krueger and his family once lived is now empty
krueger was recalled in september of nineteen ninety five about two months after his harrowing trip to the countryside where his convoy was ambushed
without knowing for sure who was behind this and you have already indicated that you think the the burundi military was behind it whoever was behind it cannot help but walk away from this series of events and say as mao zedung used to the united states is a bit of a paper tiger
it is true that that burundi is a place where people live a great deal by intimidation and i'm reminded of of the lines that winston churchill used in his famous iron curtain speech when he said of the russians he said i have found that there is nothing the russians so much respect as strength and nothing for which they have so little respect as weakness i think it is important that we convey an image of strength and that we continue strongly to support democracy in that country
what are you suggesting
what should the united states be doing over there
or if indeed you are suggesting that the world community should be doing something how do you how do you motivate the world community to do anything and again what should they be doing
well first of all the world community has to know what is going on there so that they have to realize that if they feel that there is inhumanity an obligation to seek to prevent these gross miscarriages of justice
what will happen if they don't
if things are just left to go along there at their current path
i think if things are left to go along their current path there is a very real chance without any international community involvement there is a very real chance of a larger conflagration
with all respect and i do respect what you did i think everyone would it's a lonely act it's an isolated act
the killing continues if anything at a greater rate than than before
we can't see it and when i ask you what we can do about it or what we are likely to do about it you're obliged to resort to diplomatic gobbledygook if you'll forgive me for saying so
there just comes a point at which i understand an ambassador is obliged not to cross the line
but if you won't say it then who's going to do it
i can't speak for the united states of america saying that we are going to commit military troops
that's not my authority
that's only the president can do that
i can tell you without revealing anything that is not known in the public that military options are being considered by the international community as well as other options and when i say they're being considered that does not mean that they have been ruled out
ultimately as you well know better than i nations have to make decisions like that based upon their own national interest
i asked you what america's national interest was
yes of course we have a national interest in seeing democracy thrive
but we don't have the wherewithal to impose it all around the world where it is lacking
i wouldn't argue
i would simply say this
we have zero commercial interest in the country
there's only seven million dollars of trade between our two countries under ordinary circumstances
that's nothing
we have zero strategic interest
the safety of american citizens will not be endangered by whatever goes on in burundi
what we must ask ourselves is do we have as human beings any obligation to other people in other parts of the world who are suffering terribly
i can't say for this nation or for other individuals where they think their obligation to other people begins and ends
i can only say that there are people desperately in need who look more than anywhere else in the world to the united states of america as a symbol of justice achieved through the dignity of self government and democracy
and if we feel that that is an important part of our heritage then we have to decide how do we live up to that part of our inheritance
we don't just inherit material things in this country
we inherit extraordinary opportunities
and i can remember my my mother used to say to me she said always remember robert that for everything you take from life she said you've been very fortunate life has given you many things but for everything you take from life you have to give back to life
i'll be back with a final thought in a moment
ambassador krueger's story is something of a cautionary tale that illustrates the difference between the way we'd like things to be and the way they are
you just know that especially in a political year the u. s. government is not going to send troops to burundi and even if it weren't a political year washington is unlikely to pick a fight where so little of our national interest is involved
we all instinctively know that it just takes a bob krueger every once in a while to remind us how great the gap sometimes gets between our self image as a nation and reality
that's our report for tonight
i'm ted koppel in washington
for all of us here at a. b. c. news good night
on world news tonight great relief in washington
this year's budget finally makes it through congress ford ignition switches that make catch fire
the company will fix millions of them and the tragedy that still haunts chernobyl ten years after the nuclear nightmare
from a. b. c. this is world news tonight with peter jennings
good evening
we begin tonight with a headline that could have been written nearly seven months ago congress is finally passing the nineteen ninety six budget
it has been the longest budget battle in american political history
the government shutdown twice because the politicians couldn't agree on how much money to spend and where to spend it
and now that they've made a deal democrats and republicans are all saying they've held out for so long in the public interest
in washington a. b. c.'s john cochran
as the budget fight dragged to a merciful end democrats spoke for everyone including republicans
and in my view it marks the end of a very dark period
and not a minute too soon especially for the republicans who suffered the most damage in the long bruising clash over the budget
last winter republicans thought it was smart politics to shut down many government offices rather than give in to president clinton's demands
they thought the country would blame the president pressure him to surrender
republicans now admit they were wrong on both counts
but today they tried to see the upside
it's a reduction in spending of twenty three billion dollars thirty billion dollars less than the president requested
for the first effort of this republican congress it is an extraordinary achievement
but republicans had to give president clinton almost five billion dollars of the eight billion dollars he wanted for his top priorities the environment education job training and crime fighting
the president got the money he wanted to help local police departments hire more cops
and republicans gave up attempts to limit loans students get directly from the government
republicans also dropped a requirement to discharge members of the armed forces who test positive for the aids causing virus
but the president claimed neither victory nor all the credit
when we do things together the american people are not fools
they know that i cannot claim full credit for a bill that goes through a congress that is majority republican
tonight though republicans are frustrated
they say that even though they made the single largest reduction in government spending since world war two they won't get much of the credit for it
and they're determined to be a lot smarter when they take on the president in the next round the fight over next year's budget
john cochran a. b. c. news capitol hill
the ford motor company is facing an enormous expense today
hundreds of millions of dollars to repair or replace ignition switches that may catch on fire
the owners of eight point five million cars and trucks most of them in the u. s. the others in canada have been told to bring their vehicles in
and this makes it the largest product recall ever by a single manufacturer
here's a. b. c.'s lisa stark
the ignition switch fires two hundred sixty in canada more than one thousand in the united states are caused by a short circuit in the switch which can start a fire even when the car is turned off
the recall involves thirteen models of ford and lincoln mercury cars and trucks built between nineteen eighty eight and early nineteen ninety three
ford will replace the switches in these vehicles with a new design
twenty five million ford cars actually have the old style switches
but ford is recalling only about one third of them
ford says those are the ones vulnerable to fires because the switches were manufactured differently
we're very confident that we have identified what the cause is and we're confident we know how to fix it
this nineteen eighty five ranger burst into flames while sitting in a driveway in atlanta
it is not included in the recall
the truck's owner believes it should be
vehicles just don't start on fire for no reason
it seems to be the classic symptoms of the ford ignition switch problem
federal auto safety regulators who have been investigating the switches believe the ford recall is adequate
but they will watch to make sure
we keep our options open
we will monitor this and we will make sure the public knows about it
we will make sure the remedy goes in
and we'll make sure the remedy works
letters to ford owners telling them to bring cars in will go out in the next few days
ford won't say how much this recall will cost but estimates range from four hundred thirty five million dollars to seven hundred eighty million dollars
lisa stark a. b. c. news washington
there was another political blow to the tobacco industry today
the new york state teachers pension fund has become the nation's largest institutional investor to unload some of its tobacco stocks ninety million dollars worth in their case
and this comes two days after the american medical association urged investors to sell their tobacco holdings
in the other news tonight the effort to ban canned hunting a practice that is more butchery than sport
also tonight the freemen of montana
they may denounce uncle sam but they sure like the handouts and the barbecue sauce they call checkout time those who tasted it know why
in washington today the congress is taking a serious look at the habits of some not very adventurous trophy hunters
this is about something called canned hunting
it would be a mistake to call it sport
it occurs when wild animals are purchased or raised for the precise purpose of being hunted and killed in a very small place too small to hide
here's a. b. c.'s michele norris
they are called canned hunts because the animals are fenced in and cannot flee
in this video recorded by the humane society a sportsman targets a corsican ram aiming carefully avoid the animal's head a wall trophy from the kill
but the ram refuses to die quickly until a hunter fires a rifle shot still avoiding the head
it is legalized cruelty to animals and we believe that laws are necessary to protect these animals from these unscrupulous individuals
today congress held a hearing on a proposed law that would ban exotic hunts on ranches or game preserves that are one thousand acres or less an area deemed too small to provide a fair chase
canned hunts as they are called are not sport
they are no more than the slaughter of a magnificent animal
texas rancher dick winter who sells hunting expeditions on his four thousand five hundred acre spread said outfits that run hunts in small pens have ruined the sport's reputation
these people are an infinitesimal group
to condemn the entire practice and the entire industry is most ill founded
i think it's ludicrous
with operations in twenty four states exotic hunting is a one hundred million dollar industry fueled by sportsmen willing to pay big money as much as two thousand dollars for a zebra four thousand dollars to six thousand dollars for a cape buffalo
the legislation would have no effect whatsoever on traditional hunting of native animals such as ducks or dear
but it would end a practice that animal activists say is tantamount to going hunting at the zoo
michele norris a. b. c. news washington
we go out west now
in montana this is the beginning of month two in the standoff between the so called freemen and federal agents
it shows no sign of ending
as you may remember from the way these people talk whenever they do talk their anti government rhetoric is very intense
and that particularly galls some of their neighbors who think they are more freeloaders than freemen
a. b. c.'s jack smith reports from montana
the freemen like to portray themselves as rugged individualists oppressed by government
but like almost everyone here they couldn't exist without government
this part of montana is called the big open
some even call it the american outback one of the driest most remote parts of the country
and it would be hard if not impossible to farm here without federal assistance
rancher tom stanton has thirteen thousand acres and gets fifty thousand dollars a year in agricultural subsidies
is this tough farming country
oh you bet it's tough farming country
we're probably the poorest place in the united states to make a living at farming
his neighbor cecil weeding who gets forty thousand dollars a year in farm assistance agrees
could most people farm up here without the government if it didn't exist
no not at all
without the subsidy they couldn't make it
most ranchers here are eligible for up to one hundred thousand dollars in government farm subsidies each year
the government also provides cheap land loans and operating loans
and the freemen have benefited more than most
the clark ranch where they're holed up was getting at least fifty thousand dollars a year in subsidies and the government in addition over the years loaned the clarks more than a million dollars of taxpayer money in a futile effort to keep them afloat
that's why the freemen's hardworking and successful neighbors don't think much of their claim to be fighting washington
hypocrites
hypocrites
certainly
they have been there with their hand out every chance there was
so they milked the government farmed the government quite a lot in their days
far from oppressing the freemen locals here say the government was coddling a group of farmers who couldn't manage money never paid their debts and got what they deserved when lenders foreclosed
jack smith a. b. c. news jordan montana
in a moment the brutality of youth
a six year old charged with attempted murder
in california today some answers about a brutal attack on a four week old baby by schoolchildren that left the infant in critical condition and a neighborhood badly shaken
that was our report last night
tonight we learn more about the six year old charged with the crime
here's a. b. c.'s ken kashiwahara
after questioning the three boys at the juvenile detention center authorities determined that only the six year old took part in the beating
california authorities believe he is the youngest person in the state ever charged with attempted murder
all three boys were charged with burglary for allegedly entering the home and stealing a bicycle
but since the case is so rare what happens next is unclear
legal experts say the six year old may never go to trial
there are two things the prosecution has to do
first they have to show that the six year old is capable of even having criminal intent
that will be one hearing
and assuming they can do that then they can put him on trial for this attempted murder
meanwhile the parents of baby ignacio bermudez held a news conference today
the baby's father said his child is still in critical condition
speaking through an interpreter he said the family is simply crying a lot
this is what hurts me the most is i don't have an explanation
what can you say about a child who's barely thirty three days old
he can't do any harm to anyone
bermudez was asked what should be done with the six year old suspect
i don't want to see anything happen to that child because he also has a mother and she would suffer very deeply just like we're suffering
doctors say baby ignacio is improving slightly but that it's too early to say if he'll recover completely
when it's all over bermudez says he plans to move his family out of the neighborhood
ken kashiwahara a. b. c. news san francisco
violence and sadness in california
on wall street today the dow jones industrials gained thirteen points to close at five thousand five hundred sixty six
on the nasdaq market stocks gained just about seven points
two sides of political correctness to report on tonight
in china the government has seized two hundred fifty plastic models of world war two japanese and german battleships
it says the toys are an insulting reminder of what was done to the chinese in the nineteen thirty's and forties
in los angeles the two statues of nude athletes will not be covered up for the televised olympic torch relay this weekend
the los angeles times said the atlanta olympic committee was insisting officially the atlanta committee says it would never insist
the camelot yard sale continued today and the prices are still astronomical
jacqueline kennedy onassis's fake pearls which originally cost a few hundred dollars brought more than one hundred ninety thousand dollars
and it was the chairman of the heinz corporation tony o'reilly who bought mrs. onassis's forty carat diamond ring for more than two million dollars
and just this evening her saddle was sold for more than eighty thousand dollars
the feeding frenzy continues
the most polluted place in the world the legacy of chernobyl right after this
from overseas today we're going to try to give you a sense of what a continuing nuclear nightmare is
tomorrow is the tenth anniversary of the explosion at the chernobyl nuclear plant in ukraine
there has been no end to the aftermath
because the soviets lied to their own people about how serious it was more than one hundred thousand locals were only evacuated after days of unnecessary radiation
and hundreds of thousands of others brought in to clean up chernobyl were probably poisoned as well
millions of acres have been abandoned
a. b. c.'s gillian findlay has been back to chernobyl for us
they are engineers construction workers secretaries on their morning commute a commute through some of the most devastated land in the world fields that grow nothing forests that are stunted villages long since abandoned
these people are among the six thousand workers who travel every day to jobs at chernobyl
the explosion that ripped apart the reactor core that april day unleashed two hundred times as much radiation as the hiroshima and nagasaki bombs combined
for days the fires raged
for days the soviet leaders did not tell the world or their own people
when finally villages around the plant were evacuated the radiation had already spread
today visitors are advised to wear protective clothing at several places including this dump site for equipment that was used in the clean up
radiation levels here are still many times higher than what's considered safe
ten years later this is still some of the most contaminated ground on earth
people who work here are limited as to how long they can stay
and for an eighteen mile radius around no one is supposed to live but they do
we found some of them in the village of elinsey
maria and fiodor movachenko were forced from their home nine days after the accident
authorities them moved them three times more
in the end they said it was easier just to come home
here they have their animals their land and like many of the five hundred or so others who have returned to the region no apparent fear of radiation
the fact is those who defy the authorities to come back to what is known as the contamination zone are those who could find no life in the changing world outside
this man told us he'd come home to die
you can't replant an old tree he said
it won't survive
tragedy still haunts this place
in village after village it is clear how quickly lives were broken
dishes left on the table family photos forgotten when the order came to leave
